- **20:09** [[learning-summaries]]:  [(5) #1: Airbnb's Director of Experience, Katie Dill, tells us why Airbnb uses "stories" to design - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVc2hp9jlQ0)
	- Think about how those pixels on the screens translate into real life repercussions or effects
	- A design centric company thinks of end users, looks for opportunities, places iteration, tries  new things.
	- Remove the risks of surprise by testing aspects of your hypothesis.
	- In addition to storyboarding, low fidelity designs are great for getting buy-in
	- Use of storytelling in design process: think about how to tell the narrative of your user interacting with your product. A good format would be to start with the person's problem, and then transition into a reimagining of how we can alleviate the problem e.g. "Now let's imagine with this new feature, we can..."
	- To get design buy-in, start planting seeds into people's minds early in the process
	- When articulating the journey, ask yourself, "Where is our product a part of this journey?", "In areas where we are not part of the journey, do we want to be?" #opportunity-finding
- **20:20** [[skincare/products to try/sunscreen]] :  [Free delivery - instock! CeraVe - Hydrating Mineral Tinted Sunscreen with SPF 30 / Broad Spectrum SPF 30 / SPF 50 | Shopee Singapore](https://shopee.sg/product/17842027/6379526602?smtt=0.205946770-1658060384.9)
- **20:39** [[skincare/products to try/sunscreen]] :  [Neogen Dermalogy Day-light Protection Airy Sunscreen SPF50 | Shopee Singapore](https://shopee.sg/product/131458248/6044392085?smtt=0.205946770-1658061492.9)
- [[quotes/articles]] [How to know when to stop](https://www.lennysnewsletter.com/p/how-to-know-when-to-stop)
	- In my mind, I was conditioned to think that I needed to be perfect; otherwise, I wasn’t worthy of acceptance and love.
	- List of intolerables: A list of things to completely avoid. These are the variables that immediately place you outside a tolerable range and should be avoided. Think of experiences you’ve had that have produced a large emotional response that sent you into a downward spiral. Or things that you intuitively know are bad for your overall well-being.
	- List of boundaries: A list of self-imposed boundaries that are favorable toward health and well-being. These act as defensive measures to avoid the slippery slope into intolerable situations
	- Plan to flourish: A list of items that put you in your optimal zone of performance. You should be prepared to make sacrifices in order to commit to these. Think of experiences or behaviors that make you feel healthiest and at your best. These are the items that, when you commit to them, make you more resilient against things that test your tolerance.
	- Your red circle is for experiences that you find are deal-breakers when it comes to your overall well-being
	- During the acceleration phase, people tend to start managing other people and managing projects of increasing scale and complexity.  At the peak phase, it presumes that you’ve climbed high enough to where there isn’t much climbing left to do
	- Office hours are the standard measure of the number of hours you’ll work where there’s a “butt in a seat,” i.e. actual work being done. We tend to work more office hours as our career progresses toward the peak. Mind hours are the number of hours that your mind and nervous system are preoccupied with work because of the stresses of it.
	- Our ability to take on a lot is thoroughly tested. As high achievers, we’re conditioned to not question if we should take on more. We just put our heads down and run face-first into exhaustion without pausing long enough to ask ourselves, “What am I doing? And why am I still doing it?”
	- There may be times when you decide it’s necessary to expose yourself to harsher conditions. But that’s the key—you should consciously decide when and why a wander into the intolerable makes sense.
	- How much money do I truly need to live the life I envision for myself?  #reflection
	  What would I have to sacrifice if I reduced my salary by half, and would it be worth it? #reflection
	  What would I need from my job in order for it to be worth the extra labor and stress?  #reflection
	- Without a serious commitment to recovery, we can’t expect to improve our ability to bounce back from periods of intolerability.
	- The good news is that by drafting your tolerance list and turning it into a tolerance target, you can create a lifestyle that not only manages the frequency with which you’re brought into intolerable periods but also gives you the tools to quickly recover from high-stress periods, which in turn improves your range of tolerance moving forward.
	- The purpose of life isn’t to sacrifice our well-being. The purpose of life is to flourish.
- **20:48** [[quotes/articles]] :  [How to develop product sense - by Jules Walter](https://www.lennysnewsletter.com/p/product-sense)
	- When you see a new trend, instead of dismissing it as a fad, ask yourself, “If this trend reaches its full potential, what opportunities will it create that I can pursue?”
	- One of the things I learned from my exposure to Stewart Butterfield is that every detail about the user experience matters. “The details are not the details,” he would say, quoting designer Charles Eames. “They make the design.
	- For example, in the article Are You Solving the Right Problems?, Thomas Wedell-Wedellsborg gives an example of how two different framings of a problem lead to completely different solutions:
- [[quotes/articles]] [Project managers, ducks, and dogs marking territory](https://rachelbythebay.com/w/2013/06/05/duck/)
	- As the story goes, the artists had created all of these animation cycles for their game, and it had to pass through the review stage of a project manager. One of the artists knew the way these guys tended to want to "leave their mark" on things, and did something a little extra.
	  
	  Apparently, the queen was given a little companion. As she came to life and moved around, so did the duck. It would just follow her around the board.
	  
	  Supposedly, the PM saw this and said "it's great... just remove the duck". So, the artist went in and removed the duck (which had been carefully placed to make that easy), and that was that. The sacrificial duck kept the meddling manager away from the stuff that was important.