Title:: It's OK That You're Not OK: Meeting Grief and Loss in a Culture That Doesn't Understand
Author:: Devine Megan
Date:: [[Feb 5th, 2023]]
Tags:: #grief, #Book-Reviews
title:: Books/It's OK That You're Not OK: Meeting Grief and Loss in a Culture That Doesn't Understand

- **Quotes**
	- What has happened cannot be made right. What is lost cannot be restored.
	- You need someone to see your grief, to acknowledge it. You need someone to hold your hands while you stand there in blinking horror, staring at the hole that was your life. Some things cannot be fixed. They can only be carried.
	- The world splits open, and nothing makes sense. Your life was normal, and now, suddenly, it’s anything but normal
	- There is nothing wrong with grief. It’s a natural extension of love. It’s a healthy and sane response to loss. That grief feels bad doesn’t make it bad; that you feel crazy doesn’t mean you are crazy. Grief is part of love. Love for life, love for self, love for others. What you are living, painful as it is, is love. And love is really hard. Excruciating at times.
	- There are losses that rearrange the world. Deaths that change the way you see everything, grief that tears everything down. Pain that transports you to an entirely different universe, even while everyone else thinks nothing has really changed.
	- Being alive in such a fleeting, tenuous world is hard. Our hearts get broken in ways that can’t be fixed. There is pain that becomes an immovable part of our lives. We need to know how to endure that, how to care for ourselves inside that, how to care for one another. We need to know how to live here, where life as we know it can change, forever, at any time.
	- Of course people want to make you feel better—it’s part of being human: We want to take away what hurts. We want to help. We want to be helped. We want things from each other we should be able to give. But instead of feeling held and comforted, many grieving people feel shamed, shunned, and dismissed.
	- We all deserve to be heard in our grief, no matter what that grief may be. At the same time, we can’t assign equal weight to all losses and successfully support someone in pain.
	- What we need to remember—as a working practice—is to honor all griefs. Honor all losses, small and not small. Life changing and moment changing. And then, not to compare them.
	- To feel truly comforted by someone, you need to feel heard in your pain. You need the reality of your loss reflected back to you—not diminished, not diluted.
	- You didn’t need this experience in order to grow. You didn’t need the lessons that supposedly only grief can teach. You already were a good and decent human, making your way in the world.
	- When you choose to find meaning or growth inside your loss, that’s an act of personal sovereignty and self-knowledge. When someone else ascribes growth or meaning to your loss, it diminishes your power, gives subtle shaming or judgment to who you were before, and tells you that you needed this somehow. No wonder it feels so bad.
	- Grief is seen as an aberration, a detour from “normal,” happy life. Our medical models call it a disorder. We believe that grief is a short-term response to a difficult situation, and as such, should be over and done within a few weeks. Grief that hasn’t disappeared, faded back into fond memories and an occasional wistful smile, is evidence that you’ve done something wrong, or that you aren’t as resilient, skilled, or healthy as you thought you were before.
	- Judgment, criticism, and dismissive comments are the norm in deep grief, not the exception.
	- Grief gets a narrow window to be expressed. After that, you are expected to return to normal, carrying with you the gifts you’ve learned from the experience. You’re supposed to become wiser, more compassionate, and truly understand what’s important. Staying sad means you’re not doing it right.
	- When I speak to someone within the first two years of their loss, I always tell them, “This just happened. It was just a minute ago. Of course it still hurts.” Their relief is palpable. We have it so deeply engrained in us that any kind of hardship shouldn’t last more than a couple of months, at most. Anything more than that is considered malingering. As though the loss of someone you love were just a temporary inconvenience, something minor, and surely not something to stay upset over.
	- No wonder so many grieving people have given up on getting professional support: the stages don’t fit.
	- But you can’t force an order on pain. You can’t make grief tidy or predictable. Grief is as individual as love: every life, every path, is unique. There is no pattern, and no linear progression.
	- We are an overcoming culture. Bad things happen, but we come out better for them. These are the stories we tell. And it’s not just on the screen. Social scientist Brené Brown argues that we live in “a Gilded Age of Failure,” where we fetishize recovery stories for their redemptive ending, glossing over the darkness and struggle that precedes it.1 We’ve got a cultural narrative that says bad things happen in order to help you grow, and no matter how bleak it seems, the end result is always worth the struggle. You’ll get there, if only you believe. That happy ending is going to be glorious. Grieving people are met with impatience precisely because they are failing the cultural storyline of overcoming adversity. If you don’t “transform,” if you don’t find something beautiful inside this, you’ve failed. And if you don’t do it quickly, following that narrative arc from incident to transformation within our collective attention span, you’re not living the right story.
	- As a culture, we don’t want to hear that there are things that can’t be fixed. As a culture, we don’t want to hear that there is some pain that never gets redeemed. Some things we learn to live with, and that’s not the same as everything working out in the end.
	- In telling better stories, we weave a culture that knows how to bear witness, to simply show up and be present to that which can never be transformed
	- Being brave is about waking to face each day when you would rather just stop waking up. Being brave is staying present to your own heart when that heart is shattered into a million different pieces and can never be made right. Being brave is standing at the edge of the abyss that just opened in someone’s life and not turning away from it, not covering your discomfort with a pithy “think positive” emoticon. Being brave is letting pain unfurl and take up all the space it needs. Being brave is telling that story.
	- Brené Brown’s research states that blame is a way to discharge pain and discomfort. Intense grief is a reminder that our lives here are tenuous at best. Evidence of someone else’s nightmare is proof that we could be next. That’s seriously uncomfortable evidence.
	- Being close to someone else’s pain makes us feel pain. Our brains know we’re connected.
	- Somehow, we are meant to both accept suffering as a gift that we needed in order to become better people and refuse to let loss shove us out of our normal, happy, rosy, optimistic demeanor.
	- The way to get through the pain of being human is not to deny it, but to experience it. To let it exist. To let it be, without stopping it up or holding it back, or in our newer, more modern forms of resistance, by claiming it isn’t “evolved” to be in pain.
	- You allow pain because it’s real. Because it is easier to allow than to resist. Because being with what is is kinder, softer, gentler, and easier to bear—even when it rips you apart. Because bearing witness to pain, without shutting it down or denying it, is enlightenment
	- The cult of positivity we have does everyone a disservice. It leads us to believe we’re more in charge of the world than we are, and holds us responsible for every pain and heartbreak we endure.
	- Pain has to be welcomed and understood, given actual true space at the table; otherwise we cannot do the work we do, whether that is the personal work of showing up and staying alive, or the wider global work of making the world safe, equitable, and beautiful for all beings. We have to be able to say what’s true without fear of being seen as weak, damaged, or somehow failing the cultural storyline. We need to make it just as normal to talk about our pain as it is to talk about our joy.
	- Hard, painful, terrible things happen. That is the nature of being alive, here in this world. Not everything works out; everything doesn’t happen for a reason. The real path here, the real way forward, is not in denying that irredeemable pain exists, but by acknowledging that it does
	- Real safety is in entering each other’s pain, recognizing ourselves inside it.
	- What I’m proposing is a third path. A middle way. Not on, not off. A way to tend to pain and grief by bearing witness. By neither turning away, nor by rushing redemption, but by standing there, right there, inside the obliterated universe. By somehow making a home there.
	- The new model of grief is not in cleaning it up and making it go away; it’s in finding new and beautiful ways to inhabit what hurts. It’s in finding the depth of love necessary to witness each other’s pain without rushing in to clean it up. It’s in standing beside each other, offering companionship.
	- The more we speak of the reality of grief, the easier it becomes. The more people tell the truth about how hard this is—how hard it is to be alive, to love, and to lose—the better this life becomes for everyone. Even for those who think that grief is a problem to be solved.
	- We can love each other, standing in the full knowledge that what we love will die. We can love each other, knowing that feeling the other person’s pain is a sign of our connection, not our doom. It’s terrifying to love one another this way, but it’s the way we need to love.
	- When someone you love dies, you don’t just lose them in the present or in the past. You lose the future you should have had, and might have had, with them. They are missing from all the life that was to be.
	- The world is full of things connected to your grief. If there is anything that gives you even a moment’s relief or respite, move toward that.
	- You will do what you need to do when you need to do it. Not a moment before. It will never feel good. But if it makes you feel sick, now is not the time. Use the vomit metric for any decisions you have to make and for the ones you feel like you’re supposed to make.
	- And—it’s one of the cruelest aspects of intense loss: at a time when you most need love and support, some friends either behave horribly or they disappear altogether.
	- Your loss intersects with often hidden or especially painful heartbreak in the people around you. Your pain bumps up against their pain. We may not call it that directly, but that’s often what’s happening when people behave poorly or fail to understand the immensity of your loss
	- The injustice of these second losses makes grief itself that much more difficult.
	- Living inside grief, you know there is nothing to be fixed: this can’t be made right.
	- Being allowed to tend to your grief, without feeling like you need to fix it or clean it up, makes grief, itself, easier
	- The people I love, the ones I will go to again and again, are the ones who do not in any way try to “solve” this for me, or fix it, or fix me. They do not make any attempt to cheer me up, or shame me into feeling thankful that I had as much love as I did, and so should be happy with that. They do not tell me things will be better “later,” and that I have so much to live for. They do not remind me I am part of the cycle of life. As though that matters, all that pandering, condescending crap.
	- The way to survive grief is by allowing pain to exist, not in trying to cover it up or rush through it.
	- You will witness incredible pain in this life. Love anyway. Find a way to live here, beside that knowledge. Include that knowledge. Love through that. Be willing to not turn away from the pain of this world—pain in yourself or in others.
	- Suffering comes with being told to not feel what you feel. Suffering comes with being told there is something wrong with what you feel.
	- The broad answer is simple: pain gets supported; suffering gets adjusted
	- Your grief is not a test of love; it’s an experiment in love.
	- How do I feel after I see this person? Do I feel supported and centered, or crazy and exhausted? Are there times of day I feel calmer and more grounded? Are there certain books, or movies, or places that take the sharp edge off my mind, if only for a little while?
	- The weight of immoveable pain is simply too much. However, there might be moments where you feel steadier, less anxious, or are able to be gentler with yourself. Remember that we’re aiming to reduce suffering and find ways to tend to pain.
	- The only way to know what is likely to reduce your suffering is by becoming curious about it. Mapping the territory.
	- Heave yourself in the direction of gentleness-to-self. You don’t have to do any more than that. Just turn toward it. Turn toward wellness—that’s enough. It counts.
	- The thought of everyone else going back to their lives while you’re still sitting there in the wreckage is overwhelming. The reality is just too big to let in.
	- Feeling like you’d rather not wake up in the morning is normal in grief, and it doesn’t mean you’re suicidal. Not wanting to be alive is not the same thing as wanting to be dead.
	- All those encouragements from others about having so much to live for, that there’s still goodness to come in your life—they feel irrelevant. They kind of are irrelevant. You can’t cheerlead yourself out of the depths of grief. Survival in early grief is not about looking toward the future. It’s not about finding something that lights you up, or gives you a reason for living. It just doesn’t work like that. Because those ordinary encouragements about the value of life are irrelevant, you’ll need other ways to navigate those extra-intense times when grief threatens to overtake you.
	- “I’m not going to kill myself, but I can tell you that if a piano were falling from the roof of this building I’m walking past, I wouldn’t rush to get out of the way. DAN, after the death of his husband, Michael
	- Upekkha is the practice of staying emotionally open and bearing witness to the pain while dwelling in equanimity around one’s limited ability to effect change. This form of compassion—for self, for others—is about remaining calm enough to feel everything, to remain calm while feeling everything, knowing that it can’t be changed.
	- The more you open to your pain, the more you can just be with it, the more you can give yourself the tenderness and care you need to survive this. Your pain needs space. Room to unfold.
	- Sometimes grief like yours cannot be held by the universe itself. True. Sometimes grief needs more than an endless galaxy
	- There isn’t anything you need to do with your pain. Nothing you need to do about your pain. It simply is. Give it your attention, your care. Find ways to let it stretch out, let it exist. Tend to yourself inside it. That’s so different from trying to get yourself out of it. The way to come to pain is with open eyes, and an open heart, committed to bearing witness to your own broken place. It won’t fix anything. And it changes everything.
	- Mirabai encourages us to seek out the “smoldering ache of loss,” but facing that pain head-on, coming to it gently, truly feeling the intensity of weight and shape can feel daunting. Even the idea of softening into the pain can be scary. What will you find there? If you soften into it, will you ever find your way back out? Part of this process is learning to trust yourself
	- Sometimes, you just need to know that you can care for yourself. That, no matter what happens, you will show up for yourself as though you’re someone you love, caring for yourself as best you can.
	- “If you want me to breathe in this wreckage, I have to lean into it, head-on. Place my whole weight in the wreckage, allow it to hold me up, hold me down. It means reliving every single moment. The hardest, darkest, sharpest ones. The happy ones before he died that bring a specific kind of pain. It means being pregnant all over again. Counting down the days. Filled with that exquisite excitement that is absolutely unique to the moment you meet your child. Sometimes I want to go looking for the pain. I want to marinate in it, allow it to soak into my skin. It’s a tonic of sorts. A flush of the system. A way to demolish the foundation and start from nothing. Which sometimes—dare I say it—can make you feel good on the other end. It rewards you to taste fearlessness. To have nothing to lose. The grief is disarming, but sometimes the afterward is intoxicating. Because what can you do to me now? This cockiness was hard-won. I’m new land craving to be built upon.
	- When your pain is too big for the environment you’re in, it can turn into emotional flooding
	- There is no place your loss does not touch. There is nothing that is not tied back to it.
	- Caring for yourself, showing up with love and tenderness for your own excruciating pain—it won’t fix anything that can’t be fixed. But for all you’ve lived, for all you’ve had to do—the phone calls, the decisions, the funeral plans, the life evaporated in an instant, all of everything you’ve had to live—you deserve kindness. You deserve the utmost care and respect. You deserve love and attention.
	- What kindness looks like will change, but your commitment to it? That’s where your safety is. That’s where stability exists, inside this wholly bizarre and shaken world. Knowing you won’t leave yourself.
	- We often think of grief as primarily emotional, but grief is a full-body, full-mind experience. You’re not just missing the one you’ve lost; your entire physiological system is reacting, too.
	- If grief has recently erupted in your life—and by recently, I mean anything from yesterday to a few years ago—you will most likely find that your brain just does not work. You may have been brilliant and organized before this loss, able to multitask, remember, execute. But grief changes all of that.
	- Grief does that. It rearranges your mind. It takes away skill sets you’ve had since childhood. It makes even the simplest things hard to follow. It makes once-familiar things feel arbitrary or confusing. It impacts your memory, your ability to communicate, your capacity for interaction.
	- When asked, you likely cannot give any evidence of having done anything
	- grief obliterates their ability to read, comprehend, and sustain attention
	- Grief strips life down to its irreducible essentials. In that visceral state, your distance from the “normal” world can feel insurmountable. There’s an uncomfortable truth here: you are not like other people. Not right now. The world has been split open. Things “ordinary,” non-grieving people do as a matter of course will not always make sense, or feel meaningful, to you.
	- Grief itself won’t make sense, loss itself will not rearrange into something orderly and sensible, but your mind, and your heart, will adapt. This loss will be absorbed and integrated. It’s what your heart and mind are made for: adapting to new experiences. Not good, not bad—it is simply what they do.
	- Inside your grief, the whole world can feel like an unsafe place, one that requires constant vigilance: searching for early warning signs of trouble, guarding against more loss.
	- Just because you saw your people half an hour ago does not mean they’re still OK now. When the ordinary safety of the world has already failed you, how can you ever feel safe here again?
	- When you feel anxious, make your exhale longer than your inhale.
	- Self-trust can feel impossible when loss has shown up in your life. In cases of accident, suicide, prenatal loss, and other losses, it’s normal to question yourself
	- Regardless of what’s accurate, it does you no good to move through the rest of this life afraid to miss something
	- You are many things, but you are not that powerful. You cannot manifest death or health or loss or grief just by thinking about it. Your thoughts did not create this loss. Your continued anxiety will not make more loss happen
	- In any moment, something bad and something good are equally possible
	- Those spaces in between, where you can breathe, where there is space—those are the places you want. This is what the ancient teaching practices are about: living in that neutral spot. Which is not at all the same as having equanimity “no matter what,” or about being “above” everything somehow. It’s about seeing the current situation, the current environment, for exactly what it is, without embellishment or future fantasy.
	- As with most things, there is no one right answer. The important thing is to let yourself ask, “What do I need right now, and how can I best meet that need?”
	- Please come to yourself—especially the anxious, fearful, terrified parts—with love and respect. This kind of anxiety is normal. It’s yet another way your mind is trying to reorder the world after your loss. Your mind is trying to keep you safe. Do your best to soothe your hardworking, overworking mind when you can
	- Whatever you might create in your pain, out of your pain, no matter how beautiful or useful it might be, it will never erase your loss.
	- Death doesn’t end a relationship; it changes it. Writing, painting, and other creative processes allow the conversation that began in life Before to continue in life After. The stories we create are a continuation of love.
	- It takes more courage than I realized to risk starting over, building bridges again, with other people. The cynical part of me tells me to get over the idea that words can console me, empower me, connect me
	- Your life, and your grief, are a work in progress. There is no need to be finished. There is no need to be perfect. There is only you, and the story of the love—and the loss—that brought you here.
	- “And now there is this, what has come after the death, after the sorrow: a softer loss. Not a churning in my gut, but a settling of stones
	- How can you get better when the one you love is still dead? Honestly. A loss of this magnitude is not something you simply recover from.
	- You will not “move on.” You will not return to “who you used to be.” How could you? To refuse to be changed by something as powerful as this would be the epitome of arrogance.
	- There are some events that happen in life that cause people to cross a threshold that forever changes them, whether they seek out their transformation or not. Life is ever unfolding, and people are ever in a process of becoming
	- Unlike resilience, which implies returning to an original shape, patience suggests change and allows the possibility of transformation . . . It is a simultaneous act of defiance and tenderness, a complex existence that gently breaks barriers. In patience, a person exists at the edge of becoming.
	- The earth does heal—and so does the heart. And if you know how to look, you can always see the ravages underneath new growth.
	- That the devastation of your loss will always exist is not the same as saying you are “eternally broken.” It is saying we are made of love and scars, of healing and grace, of patience. Of being changed, by each other, by the world, by life. Evidence of loss can always be seen, if we only know how to look.
	- Recovery is about listening to your wounds. Recovery is being honest about the state of your own devastation. It’s about cultivating patience, not the kind that implies waiting it out until you return to normal, but patience in knowing that grief and loss will carve their way through you, changing you.
	- Life can be, and even likely will be, beautiful again. But that is a life built alongside loss, informed by beauty and grace as much as by devastation, not one that seeks to erase it.
	- If happiness returns to your life, what does that mean about what was lost? Was it really not all that important, or special, if you can simply move forward with your life?
	- As you move forward in this life, your grief, and more important, your love, will come with you. Recovery in grief is a process of moving with what was, what might have been, and what still remains.
	- Insisting that we have hope in some kind of positive outcome is just another way our culture’s insistence on transformation and a happy ending shows itself. I can’t hope like that. If we change our orientation to hope—moving from what we might get, to how we might get there—then hope is a concept I can get behind. We might not hope for a specific physical outcome, but instead hope to live this experience of loss in a way that is beautiful and personally meaningful.
	- If someone truly wants to help you inside your grief, they have to be willing to hear what doesn’t help. They have to be willing to feel the discomfort of not knowing what to say or how to say it. They have to be open to feedback. Otherwise they aren’t really interested in helping—they’re interested in being seen as helpful. There’s a difference.
	- So often in grief, we’re told by people outside our experience what the experience is like for us: what it means, what it feels like, what it should feel like. They take their own experiences, their own guesses about what we’re really wrestling with, and offer their support based on their own internal views. People take our social reactions—or nonreactions—personally, ascribing meaning to them without ever checking out their assumptions.
	- Not everyone deserves to hear your grief. Not everyone is capable of hearing it.
	- Part of living with grief is learning to discern who is safe and who is not, who is worthy and who is not. Part of living with grief is also learning to discern, for yourself, your own right timing in sharing this with others.
	- It’s amazing how many people drop out of your life in the wake of catastrophic loss. People who have been with you through thick and thin suddenly disappear, or turn dismissive, shaming, strange. Random strangers become your biggest, deepest source of comfort, if even only for a few moments. It’s one of the hardest aspects of grief—seeing who cannot be with you inside this. Some people fade out and disappear.
	- Grief can be incredibly lonely. Even when people show up and love you as best they can, they aren’t really with you in this. They can’t be.
	- Grief is difficult on everything; relationships are not immune. There will be people who can handle the choppy relationship bits and make it through with you.
	- Seeing grief as an experience that needs support, rather than solutions, changes everything.
	- the way to truly be helpful to someone in pain is to let them have their pain. Let them share the reality of how much this hurts, how hard this is, without jumping in to clean it up, make it smaller, or make it go away.
	- It would be great if people came with care instructions: When I feel sad, please do this. You’ll know to back off when you see me do or say these things. Unfortunately (or fortunately), we aren’t mind readers. We can get better at hearing what others need by practicing attention and open communication throughout all of our lives, across all of our relationships. Like any other skill, bearing witness to pain will get easier the more you practice it. Knowing how to respond will become more intuitive. What feels clunky and exposed will eventually become—not easy, but much, much easier.
	- on top of the loss of someone they love, the griever loses the connection and alliance of the people around them.2 For fear of making things worse, people disappear and go silent just when we need them most.
	- Even if your loss is empirically very similar, resist the urge to use your own experience as a point of connection.
	- Don’t give compliments. When someone you love is in pain, they don’t need to be reminded that they’re smart, beautiful, resourceful, or a fantastically good person. Don’t tell them that they’re strong or brave. Grief isn’t typically a failure of confidence.
	- When things are dark, it’s OK to be dark. Not every corner needs the bright light of encouragement.
	- Don’t talk about “later.” When someone you love is in pain, it’s tempting to talk about how great things are going to be for them in the future. Right now, in this present moment, that future is irrelevant.
	- When you’ve found something that works for you, it’s tempting to globalize that experience for everyone else
	- In all things, not just in grief, it’s important to get consent before giving advice or offering strategies
	- Here is what grieving people want you to know: We love you. We still love you, even if our lives have gone completely dark, and you can’t seem to reach us. Please stay.
	- It’s an immense relief to spend time with people who can be with the reality of grief without saying much. It’s a relief to be with people who can roll with whatever comes up—from laughing maniacally to sobbing uncontrollably in the space of a few minutes. Your evenness, your steadiness of presence, is the absolutely best thing you can give.
	- We all need a place where we can tell the truth about how hard this is. We all need a place where we can share what’s really going on, without feeling corrected or talked out of anything.
	- Our losses are different, but I recognize yours. I hear your words and feel pain because it all traces down to the same roots. I recognize your pain because I’ve felt my own. Our stories aren’t the same, and the name for our loss or the relationship we grieve may be different, but I want you to know I recognize your loss as true and real.
	- You are alone in your grief. You alone carry the knowledge of how your grief lives in you. You alone know all the details, the subtlety and nuance of what’s happened and what’s been lost. You alone know how deeply your life has been changed.
	- People in your outer world might worry that you’re spending too much time on grief blogs, reading grief books, or talking with people who have lived a similar loss. That’s ridiculous. We all look for similarity in our relationships. We naturally gravitate toward those with whom we share important things: interests, hobbies, backgrounds. Our lives are built around what we have in common. Of course you go looking for your own kind in grief
	- some things cannot be fixed; they can only be carried. Grief like yours, love like yours, can only be carried.
	- No one can enter the deepest heart of grief. We here, even the ones who know this magnitude of pain—we are not there with you inside your deepest grief. That intimacy is yours alone. But together, we recognize each other and bow to the pain we see. Our hearts have held great, great sorrow. Through that pain, we can be there for each other.
	- We grieve because we love. Grief is part of love. There was love in this world before your loss, there is love surrounding you now, and love will remain beside you, through all the life that is yet to come. The forms will change, but love itself will never leave. It’s not enough. And it’s everything.
	- Living in grief is continually crossing and recrossing that bridge. Survival in grief lies in finding the connection between the life that was and the life that has been thrust upon you.
	- “Because I am held in love, this is the blessing I wish for myself: for the grace to look what has happened in the eye and accept the way it was, the way it is, the way we were, and the way we are; the grace to live with the way things are now; the courage to get up in the morning; the capacity to look at a bullfinch on the bird table or the full moon or the slant of the sun on St. Catherine’s playing field behind our house and to know that there is both goodness and pain in the world, and that I am part of both.                Because I am held in love, this is my blessing for myself: to be in this space of light, however small it is, however filled with pain, each day, and to hold at bay the ravening maelstrom of chaos and darkness and disintegration of self that lurks and grabs outside this space of love. Little by little, to integrate the pain and rage and loss with love, and to overcome the darkness with light
	- This is going to hurt, maybe for a very long time. Broken hearts just do. The love you knew, the love you dreamed of, the love you grew and created together, that is what will get you through. It’s a vast, wide raft that can’t be broken or depleted
	- Going back is simply not possible. What we can do is bow to the damaged parts, the holes blown in our lives. We can come to what remains with kindness, and with love.
	- Finding your middle way inside grief is about finding friendship with your own heart, making a home inside your own heart. It’s in learning to bear witness to your own pain, in treating yourself like someone you love. It’s about claiming your right to be in pain, without cleaning it up or making it pretty for someone else’s comfort. It’s about finding those who can share this path with you, who are not afraid to see your heart in all its pain and all its grace.
	- In telling the truth about our own hearts, we let others around us begin to find their own truth.
	- We companion each other inside what hurts. We bear witness to each other. That’s the path of love. That’s what we’re made for.
- **Insights**
	- Insert key insights