Title:: Atlas of the Heart
Author:: Brene Brown
Date:: [[Feb 7th, 2023]]
Tags:: Insert tags, #Book-Reviews

	- **Quotes**
		- Overwhelmed means an extreme level of stress, an emotional and/or cognitive intensity to the point of feeling unable to function.
		- A trait is considered to be something that is part of an individual’s personality and therefore a long-term characteristic of an individual that shows through their behavior, actions, and feelings.
		- A state, on the other hand, is a temporary condition that they are experiencing for a short period of time. After the state has passed, they will return to another condition
		- Worrying and anxiety go together, but worry is not an emotion; it’s the thinking part of anxiety. Worry is described as a chain of negative thoughts about bad things that might happen in the future
		- those of us with a tendency to worry believe it is helpful for coping (it is not), believe it is uncontrollable (which means we don’t try to stop worrying), and try to suppress worry thoughts (which actually strengthens and reinforces worry).
		- Avoidance, the second coping strategy for anxiety, is not showing up and often spending a lot of energy zigzagging around and away from that thing that already feels like it’s consuming us.
		- Dread occurs frequently in response to high-probability negative events; its magnitude increases as the dreaded event draws nearer. Because dread makes an anticipated negative event even worse, we often prefer to get unpleasant things over with quickly, even if doing them sooner means that they will be more unpleasant
		- For anxiety and dread, the threat is in the future. For fear, the threat is now—in the present. Fear is a negative, short-lasting, high-alert emotion in response to a perceived threat, and, like anxiety, it can be measured as a state or trait
		- Fear arises when we need to respond quickly to physical or psychological danger that is present and imminent
		- We’ve found that across cultures, most of us were raised to believe that being vulnerable is being weak. This sets up an unresolvable tension for most of us, because we were also raised to be brave. There is no courage without vulnerability. Courage requires the willingness to lean into uncertainty, risk, and emotional exposure.
		- Vulnerability is not oversharing, it’s sharing with people who have earned the right to hear our stories and our experiences.
		- Vulnerability is not weakness; it’s our greatest measure of courage
		- Comparison is actually not an emotion, but it drives all sorts of big feelings that can affect our relationships and our self-worth. More often than not, social comparison falls outside of our awareness—we don’t even know we’re doing it. This lack of awareness can lead to us showing up in ways that are hurtful to ourselves and others
		- They describe how we use comparison not only to evaluate past and current outcomes, but to predict future prospects. This means significant parts of our lives, including our future, are shaped by comparing ourselves to others
		- Comparison is the crush of conformity from one side and competition from the other—it’s trying to simultaneously fit in and stand out. Comparison says, “Be like everyone else, but better.”
		- When we compare, we want to be the best or have the best of our group. The comparison mandate becomes this crushing paradox of “Fit in and stand out!” It’s not be yourself and respect others for being authentic, it’s “Fit in, but win.” I want to swim the same workout as you, and beat you at it.
		- Most of us assume that upward comparisons always leave us feeling “not enough” and downward comparisons make us feel “better than.” But researcher Frank Fujita writes, “Social comparisons can make us happy or unhappy. Upward comparisons can inspire or demoralize us, whereas downward comparisons can make us feel superior or depress us.
		- My new strategy is to look at the person in the lane next to me, and say to myself, as if I’m talking to them, Have a great swim. That way I acknowledge the inevitable and make a conscious decision to wish them well and return to my swim. So far, it’s working pretty well
		- We feel admiration when someone’s abilities, accomplishments, or character inspires us, or when we see something else that inspires us, like art or nature. Interestingly, admiration often leads to us wanting to improve ourselves. It doesn’t, however, make us want to be like the person or thing we admire—we just want to be better versions of ourselves.
		- Reverence, which is sometimes called adoration, worship, or veneration, is a deeper form of admiration or respect and is often combined with a sense of meaningful connection with something greater than ourselves
		- Envy occurs when we want something that another person has. Jealousy is when we fear losing a relationship or a valued part of a relationship that we already have.
		- Envy typically involves two people and occurs when one lacks something enjoyed by another.
		- Jealousy typically involves three people and occurs when one fears losing someone to another person
		- Am I fearful of losing something I value to another person, or do I want something someone else has? If I want something that someone else has, do I want to see them lose it, or is it not about that? If I’m scared I’m losing something important to me, what kind of conversation do I need to have with that person?
		- Is resentment part of the anger family?” Without hesitation, Marc replied, “No. Resentment is part of envy.”
		- Your lack of work is not making me resentful, my lack of rest is making me resentful.
		- Now when I start to feel resentful, instead of thinking, What is that person doing wrong? or What should they be doing? I think, What do I need but am afraid to ask for?
		- Resentment is the feeling of frustration, judgment, anger, “better than,” and/or hidden envy related to perceived unfairness or injustice. It’s an emotion that we often experience when we fail to set boundaries or ask for what we need, or when expectations let us down because they were based on things we can’t control, like what other people think, what they feel, or how they’re going to react.
		- In the case of “schadenfreude,” it simply means pleasure or joy derived from someone else’s suffering or misfortune.
		- Taking pleasure in someone else’s failings, even if that person is someone we really dislike, can violate our values and lead to feelings of guilt and shame. But, make no mistake, it’s seductive, especially when we’re sucked into groupthink.
		- When we develop expectations, we paint a picture in our head of how things are going to be and how they’re going to look
		- We help each other reality-check our expectations, we ask each other a lot of questions about what we think will happen or what we want to happen, and we often ask ourselves and each other: What’s this about? What are you not saying?
		- What expectations do you have going into this? What do you want to happen? Why? What will that mean to you? Do you have a movie in your head?
		- Painting done” means fully walking through my expectations of what the completed task will look like, including when it will be done, what I’ll do with the information, how it will be used, the context, the consequences of not doing it, the costs—everything we can think of to paint a shared picture of the expectations.
		- Communicating our expectations is brave and vulnerable. And it builds meaningful connection and often leads to having a partner or friend who we can reality-check with
		- When someone shares their hopes and dreams with us, we are witnessing deep courage and vulnerability. Celebrating their successes is easy, but when disappointment happens, it’s an incredible opportunity for meaningful connection.
		- There is research that shows that one way to minimize disappointment is to lower our expectations. True, optimism can sometimes lead to increased disappointment, and I believe these findings are accurate, but there is a middle path—a way to maintain expectations and stay optimistic—that requires more courage and vulnerability: Examine and express our expectations.
		- Both disappointment and regret arise when an outcome was not what we wanted, counted on, or thought would happen. With disappointment, we often believe the outcome was out of our control (but we’re learning more about how this is not always the case). With regret, we believe the outcome was caused by our decisions or actions.
		- What I regret most in my life are failures of kindness. Those moments when another human being was there, in front of me, suffering, and I responded…sensibly. Reservedly. Mildly.
		- To live without regret is to believe we have nothing to learn, no amends to make, and no opportunity to be braver with our lives.
		- One reason we may avoid regret is the fact that it can be accompanied by an element of self-blame and even guilt.
		- In our work, we find that what we regret most are our failures of courage, whether it’s the courage to be kinder, to show up, to say how we feel, to set boundaries, to be good to ourselves, to say yes to something scary.
		- Feeling discouraged and resigned is about effort rather than outcome. With discouragement, we’re losing the motivation and confidence to continue with our efforts. With resignation, we’ve lost the motivation to keep trying.
		- Anguish is an almost unbearable and traumatic swirl of shock, incredulity, grief, and powerlessness.
		- The element of powerlessness is what makes anguish traumatic. We are unable to change, reverse, or negotiate what has happened. And even in those situations where we can temporarily reroute anguish with to-do lists and tasks, it finds its way back to us.
		- what we think is a familiar grief—a grief we’ve come to know and understand and even integrate into our lives—can surprise us again and again, often in the form of anguish.
		- When we experience anguish and we don’t get help or support, we can find it difficult to get up off the floor and reengage with our lives.
		- The human spirit is resilient, and just as we can reclaim our ability to breathe and feel and think, we can rebuild the bones that anguish rips away. But it takes help and time
		- To live without hope is to risk suffocating on hopelessness and despair, risk being crushed by the belief that there is no way out of what is holding us back, no way to get to what we desperately need. But hope is not what most of us think it is. It’s not a warm, fuzzy emotion that fills us with a sense of possibility. Hope is a way of thinking—a cognitive process.
		- We experience hope when: We have the ability to set realistic goals (I know where I want to go). We are able to figure out how to achieve those goals, including the ability to stay flexible and develop alternative pathways (I know how to get there, I’m persistent, and I can tolerate disappointment and try new paths again and again). We have agency—we believe in ourselves (I can do this!).
		- Hope is a function of struggle—we develop hope not during the easy or comfortable times, but through adversity and discomfort.
		- To learn hopefulness, children need relationships that are characterized by boundaries, consistency, and support.
		- Hopelessness arises out of a combination of negative life events and negative thought patterns, particularly self-blame and the perceived inability to change our circumstances.
		- Hopelessness stems from not being able to set realistic goals (we don’t know what we want), and even if we can identify realistic goals, we can’t figure out how to achieve them. If we attempt to achieve the goals, we give up when we fail, we can’t tolerate disappointment, and we can’t reset. Last, we don’t believe in ourselves or our ability to achieve what we want.
		- Despair is a sense of hopelessness about a person’s entire life and future. When extreme hopelessness seeps into all the corners of our lives and combines with extreme sadness, we feel despair.
		- Setting realistic goals is a skill and a prerequisite for hope. When we don’t have these skills, small disappointments can grow into hopelessness and despair. If
		- Personalization: When we experience despair and hopelessness, we often believe that we are the problem and forget to think about larger issues and context
		- Permanence: This one is tough, because thinking that our struggle will never end is built in to the experiences of despair and hopelessness. This is the “Tomorrow will be no different from today” thinking
		- I’ve developed the habit of asking myself, “I’m really scared, worried, overwhelmed, stressed about what’s happening. Will this issue be a big deal in five minutes? Five hours? Five days? Five months? Five years?”
		- Pervasiveness: Sometimes, when we’re struggling, we fall into the trap of believing that whatever we’re up against has stained or changed every single thing in our life. Nothing good is left.
		- Feeling sad is a normal response to loss or defeat, or even the perception of loss or defeat. To be human is to know sadness. Owning our sadness is courageous and a necessary step in finding our way back to ourselves and each other.
		- In our saddest moments, we want to be held by or feel connected to someone who has known that same ache, even if what caused it is completely different. We don’t want our sadness overlooked or diminished by someone who can’t tolerate what we’re feeling because they’re unwilling or unable to own their own sadness.
		- We like to feel connected to what it means to be human, to be reminded of our inextricable connection to one another. Sadness moves the individual “us” toward the collective “us.”
		- A central process in grieving is the attempt to reaffirm or reconstruct a world of meaning that has been challenged by loss
		- Loss—While death and separation are tangible losses associated with grief, some of the participants described losses that are more difficult to identify or describe. These included the loss of normality, the loss of what could be, and the loss of what we thought we knew or understood about something or someone.
		- Longing—Related to loss is longing. Longing is not conscious wanting; it’s an involuntary yearning for wholeness, for understanding, for meaning, for the opportunity to regain or even simply touch what we’ve lost.
		- Feeling lost—Grief requires us to reorient every part of our physical, emotional, and social worlds. When we imagine the need to do this, most of us picture the painful struggle to adjust to a tangible change, such as someone dying or moving away
		- When a person adapts to a loss grief is not over.” It doesn’t mean that we’re sad the rest of our lives, it means that “grief finds a place” in our lives.
		- Each person’s grief is as unique as their fingerprint. But what everyone has in common is that no matter how they grieve, they share a need for their grief to be witnessed. That doesn’t mean needing someone to try to lessen it or reframe it for them. The need is for someone to be fully present to the magnitude of their loss without trying to point out the silver lining.”
		- Most people who struggle with complicating loss feel a great press to ‘tell the story,’ to find someone willing to hear what others cannot, and who can join them in making sense of the death without withdrawing into awkward silence or offering trite and superficial advice regarding the questions it poses.”
		- Acute grief occurs in the initial period after a loss. It almost always includes strong feelings of yearning, longing, and sadness along with anxiety, bitterness, anger, remorse, guilt, and/or shame.
		- Integrated grief is the result of adaptation to the loss. When a person adapts to a loss grief is not over. Instead, thoughts, feelings, and behaviors related to their loss are integrated in ways that allow them
		- Complicated grief occurs when something interferes with adaptation. When this happens, acute grief can persist for very long periods of time. A person with complicated grief feels intense emotional pain. They can’t stop feeling that their loved one might somehow reappear and they don’t see a pathway forward.
		- Compassion is a daily practice and empathy is a skill set that is one of the most powerful tools of compassion.
		- Compassion is the daily practice of recognizing and accepting our shared humanity so that we treat ourselves and others with loving-kindness, and we take action in the face of suffering.
		- Compassion is not a relationship between the healer and the wounded. It’s a relationship between equals. Only when we know our own darkness well can we be present with the darkness of others. Compassion becomes real when we recognize our shared humanity.
		- I went from always wanting to fix things and make them better to literally sitting in the dark with my kids.
		- pity is the near enemy of compassion
		- Pity sees them as different from ourselves. It sets up a separation between ourselves and others, a sense of distance and remoteness from the suffering of others that is affirming and gratifying to the self. Compassion, on the other hand, recognizes the suffering of another as a reflection of our own pain: “I understand this; I suffer in the same way.” It is empathetic, a mutual connection with the pain and sorrow of life
		- Pity involves four elements: a belief that the suffering person is inferior; a passive, self-focused reaction that does not include providing help; a desire to maintain emotional distance; and avoidance of sharing in the other person’s suffering.
		- Empathy, the most powerful tool of compassion, is an emotional skill set that allows us to understand what someone is experiencing and to reflect back that understanding
		- Cognitive empathy, sometimes called perspective taking or mentalizing, is the ability to
		- recognize and understand another person’s emotions. Affective empathy, often called experience sharing, is one’s own emotional attunement with another person’s experience.
		- the empathy I’m talking about is understanding what someone is feeling, not feeling it for them. If someone is feeling lonely, empathy doesn’t require us to feel lonely too, only to reach back into our own experience with loneliness so we can understand and connect. Affective empathy, feeling something along with the person who is struggling, is a slippery slope toward becoming overwhelmed and not being able to offer meaningful support.
		- Sympathy and pity are first cousins. They’re the emotions of: We feel bad for you. From way over here where the kind of misery you’re experiencing doesn’t happen.
		- we need to dispel the myth that empathy is “walking in someone else’s shoes.” Rather than walking in your shoes, I need to learn how to listen to the story you tell about what it’s like in your shoes and believe you even when it doesn’t match my experiences.
		- compassion fatigue occurs when caregivers focus on their own personal distress reaction rather than on the experience of the person they are caring for.
		- How can I be empathic with someone if I haven’t had their experience?” It’s a great question, because it exposes a dangerous myth about empathy. Empathy is not relating to an experience, it’s connecting to what someone is feeling about an experience.
		- Sympathy Versus Empathy  I feel sorry for you. The person who responds with sympathy (“I feel so sorry for you”) rather than empathy (“I get it, I feel with you, and I’ve been there”). The subtext of this response is distance: These things don’t happen to me or people like me. If you want to see a shame cyclone turn deadly, throw one of these at it: “Oh, you poor thing” or “Bless your heart.”
		- Judgment  You “should” feel shame! The person who hears the story and actually feels shame for you. The friend gasps and confirms how horrified you should be. Then there is an awkward silence. Then you have to make this person feel better by convincing them that you’re not a terrible person.
		- Disappointment  You’ve let me down. The person who needs you to be the pillar of worthiness and authenticity. This person can’t help you because they are too disappointed in your imperfections. You’ve let this person down.
		- Discharging Discomfort with Blame  This feels terrible. Who can we blame? You? Because shame is visceral and contagious, we can feel it for other people. This person immediately needs to discharge the discomfort and vulnerability of the situation by blaming and scolding. They may blame/scold you: “What were you thinking?
		- Minimize/Avoid  Let’s make this go away. We minimize and avoid when we want hard feelings to go away. Out of their own discomfort, this person refuses to acknowledge that you’re in pain and/or that you’re hurting: “You’re exaggerating. It wasn’t that bad. You rock. You’re perfect. Everyone loves you.
		- Comparing/Competing  If you think that’s bad! This person confuses connecting with you over shared experiences with the opportunity to one-up you
		- Speaking Truth to Power  Don’t upset people or make them uncomfortable. You hold someone accountable for language, comments, or behavior that marginalizes or dehumanizes others, and it causes discomfort or conflict.
		- Advice Giving/Problem Solving  I can fix this and I can fix you. Sometimes when we see pain our first instinct is to fix it. This is especially true for those of us whom people seek out to help with problem-solving
		- if we really want to practice compassion, we have to start by setting boundaries and holding people accountable for their behavior.
		- Hurt is hurt, and every time we honor our own struggle and the struggles of others by responding with empathy and compassion, the healing that results affects all of us.
		- Shame—I am bad. The focus is on self, not behavior. The result is feeling flawed and unworthy of love, belonging, and connection. Shame is not a driver of positive change.
		- Guilt—I did something bad. The focus is on behavior. Guilt is the discomfort we feel when we evaluate what we’ve done or failed to do against our values. It can drive positive change and behavior.
		- Humiliation—I’ve been belittled and put down by someone. This left me feeling unworthy of connection and disgusted with myself. This was unfair and I didn’t deserve this. With shame, we believe that we deserve our sense of unworthiness. With humiliation, we don’t feel we deserve it.
		- Embarrassment—I did something that made me uncomfortable, but I know I’m not alone. Everyone does these kinds of things. Embarrassment is fleeting, sometimes funny
		- Shame hates being spoken.
		- Shame is the fear of disconnection—it’s the fear that something we’ve done or failed to do, an ideal that we’ve not lived up to, or a goal that we’ve not accomplished makes us unworthy of connection.
		- Shame is the intensely painful feeling or experience of believing that we are flawed and therefore unworthy of love, belonging, and connection
		- Shame thrives on secrecy, silence, and judgment.
		- Shame needs you to believe that you’re alone. Empathy is a hostile environment for shame.
		- Shame happens between people and it heals between people. Even if I feel it alone, shame is the way I see myself through someone else’s eyes. Self-compassion is often the first step to healing shame—we need to be kind to ourselves before we can share our stories with someone else.
		- Self-compassionate people recognize that being imperfect, failing, and experiencing life difficulties [are] inevitable, so they tend to be gentle with themselves when confronted with painful experiences rather than getting angry when life falls short of set ideals.”
		- Common humanity vs. isolation: “Self-compassion involves recognizing that suffering and personal inadequacy is part of the shared human experience
		- Mindfulness vs. over-identification: “Mindfulness is a non-judgmental, receptive mind state in which one observes thoughts and feelings as they are, without trying to suppress or deny them.
		- I talk to myself in ways that I would never talk to people I love. I try to remind myself—if I wouldn’t talk that way to Ellen or Charlie when they make a mistake or drop a ball, I shouldn’t talk that way to myself. Self-kindness is both more difficult and more revolutionary than we think.
		- Recognizing shame and understanding its triggers. Can you physically recognize when you’re in the grip of shame, name it, feel your way through it, and figure out what messages and expectations triggered it
		- Practicing critical awareness. Can you reality-check the messages and expectations that are driving your shame? Are they realistic? Attainable? Are they what you want to be or what you think others need or want from you?
		- Reaching out. Are you owning and sharing your story? We can’t experience empathy if we’re not connecting
		- Speaking shame. Are you talking about how you feel and asking for what you need when you feel shame? Silence, secrecy, and judgment fuel shame.
		- Shame and fear are almost always driving that unethical behavior. We’re now seeing that shame often fuels narcissistic behavior. In fact, I define narcissism as the shame-based fear of being ordinary.
		- When we are truly practicing empathy, our attention is fully focused on the other person and trying to understand their experience.
		- Shame is an egocentric, self-involved emotion. It draws our focus inward. Our only concern with others when we are feeling shame is to wonder how others are judging us. Shame and empathy are incompatible
		- Shame is the birthplace of perfectionism. Perfectionism is not striving to be our best or working toward excellence.
		- Perfectionism kills curiosity by telling us that we have to know everything or we risk looking “less than.” Perfectionism tells us that our mistakes and failures are personal defects, so we either avoid trying new things or we barely recover every time we inevitably fall short.
		- perfectionism is a self-destructive and addictive belief system that fuels this primary thought: If I look perfect, live perfectly, work perfectly, and do everything perfectly, I can avoid or minimize the painful feelings of shame, judgment, and blame.
		- Perfectionism is, at its core, about trying to earn approval and acceptance.
		- Healthy striving is self-focused—How can I improve? Perfectionism is other-focused—What will they think?
		- Life paralysis” refers to all of the opportunities we miss because we’re too afraid to put anything out in the world that could be imperfect.
		- Perfectionism is self-destructive simply because there is no such thing as perfection. Perfection is an unattainable goal.
		- guilt is an emotion that we experience when we fall short of our own expectations or standards. However, with guilt, our focus is on having done something wrong and on doing something to set things right, like apologizing or changing a behavior.
		- Humiliation is most similar to shame in that we feel fundamentally flawed. But the most relevant distinction is that humiliation arises because someone else pointed out our flaws, and we don’t feel we deserved it.
		- The reasoning behind that thinking (and what emerged from our data) was that we hide our shame because we think we deserve to feel that way. In other words, we buy into the messaging that we’re not enough. In contrast, when we feel humiliated, we think that we didn’t deserve whatever happened to make us feel that way.
		- studies suggest that bullying alone does not lead to aggression. Instead, individuals who are bullied become violent specifically when feelings of humiliation accompany the bullying.
		- we all have deeply passionate political and cultural beliefs, but shame and humiliation will never be effective social justice tools
		- Embarrassment is a fleeting feeling of self-conscious discomfort in response to a minor incident that was witnessed by others.
		- When we feel embarrassed, we can feel exposed, flustered, and clumsy, but we tend to respond to our embarrassment in nonthreatening ways like using humor, saying we’re sorry, or sometimes just moving on and not even acknowledging it.
		- Committing a faux pas or social mistake, Being the center of attention, and Being in a sticky social situation.
		- We have to belong to ourselves as much as we need to belong to others. Any belonging that asks us to betray ourselves is not true belonging. Any discussion of belonging has to start with acknowledging that love and belonging are irreducible needs for all people. In the absence of love and belonging, there is always suffering
		- True belonging doesn’t require us to change who we are; it requires us to be who we are.
		- When we work to fit in and be accepted, our “belonging” is tenuous. If we do or say something that’s true to who we are but outside the expectations or rules of the group, we risk everything.
		- We can never truly belong if we are betraying ourselves, our ideals, or our values in the process.
		- Belonging is a practice that requires us to be vulnerable, get uncomfortable, and learn how to be present with people without sacrificing who we are. When we sacrifice who we are, we not only feel separate from others, but we even feel disconnected from ourselves
		- My feelings of not belonging are still something that I have to work on—they can still show up in weird ways when I’m not expecting it
		- belonging uncertainty is the term sometimes used to describe questioning one’s social belongingness. Belonging uncertainty can be high among members of marginalized groups, and this can have real consequences
		- In growth-fostering relationships, people are able to bring themselves most fully and authentically into connection.
		- I define connection as the energy that exists between people when they feel seen, heard, and valued; when they can give and receive without judgment; and when they derive sustenance and strength from the relationship.
		- Disconnection is often equated with social rejection, social exclusion, and/or social isolation, and these feelings of disconnection actually share the same neural pathways with feelings of physical pain.
		- This means that rather than making a bid for connection and having the bid ignored or rejected, we hide out or pretend we don’t need anyone
		- There’s actually a “perfectionism social disconnection model,” and this research shows that people who are high on the perfectionistic traits scale behave in ways that cause perceived and actual exclusion/rejection by others
		- Authenticity is a requirement for belonging, and fitting in is a threat. Authenticity is a requirement for connection, and perfectionism (a type of fitting in) is a threat.
		- Domain-specific insecurity occurs when we are insecure about a specific domain or resource in life, for example, food insecurity, financial insecurity, or a lack of physical safety.
		- Relationship or interpersonal insecurity occurs when we don’t feel we have a supportive and trusting relationship.
		- General or personal insecurity occurs when we are overly critical of our weaknesses.
		- the opposite of personal insecurity is self-security, which they define as “the open and nonjudgmental acceptance of one’s own weaknesses.”
		- we can have high self-esteem but still be insecure if we’re overly critical of our imperfections. Because our self-esteem is an assessment of who we are and what we’ve accomplished compared to our values and our goals, even with high self-esteem we can still feel insecure if we’re self-critical
		- self-security is positively correlated with self-compassion and negatively correlated with shame-proneness, neuroticism, fear of negative evaluation, self-aggrandizement, and relationship conflict
		- if we are comfortable with our own weaknesses (in other words, if we are self-secure), we are more successful at being emotionally close to others and more likely to have healthy relationships.
		- I define invisibility as a function of disconnection and dehumanization, where an individual or group’s humanity and relevance are unacknowledged, ignored, and/or diminished in value or importance.
		- There’s interpersonal invisibility (between people), group invisibility, and representational invisibility
		- At the heart of loneliness is the absence of meaningful social interaction—an intimate relationship, friendships, family gatherings, or even community or work group connections.
		- loneliness and being alone are very different things. Being alone or inhabiting solitude can be a powerful and healing thing. As an introvert, I deeply value alone time, and I often feel the loneliest when I’m with other people
		- We feel shame around being lonely—as if feeling lonely means there’s something wrong with us. We feel shame even when our loneliness
		- When we feel isolated, disconnected, and lonely, we try to protect ourselves. In that mode, we want to connect, but our brain is attempting to override connection with self-protection.
		- Barbara Fredrickson describes the umbrella term love as including “the preoccupying and strong desire for further connection, the powerful bonds people hold with a select few and the intimacy that grows between them, the commitments to loyalty and faithfulness.
		- We cultivate love when we allow our most vulnerable and powerful selves to be deeply seen and known, and when we honor the spiritual connection that grows from that offering with trust, respect, kindness, and affection. Love is not something we give or get; it is something that we nurture and grow, a connection that can be cultivated between two people only when it exists within each one of them—we can love others only as much as we love ourselves. Shame, blame, disrespect, betrayal, and the withholding of affection damage the roots from which love grows. Love can survive these injuries only if they’re acknowledged, healed, and rare.
		- heartbreak is more than just a painful type of disappointment or failure. It hurts in a different way because heartbreak is always connected to love and belonging
		- Heartbreak is what happens when love is lost
		- To love with any level of intensity and honesty is to become vulnerable.
		- To love is to know the loss of love. Heartbreak is unavoidable unless we choose not to love at all
		- The brokenhearted are the bravest among us—they dared to love.
		- BRAVING: Boundaries: You respect my boundaries, and when you’re not clear about what’s okay and not okay, you ask. You’re willing to say no. Reliability: You do what you say you’ll do. At work, this means staying aware of your competencies and limitations so you don’t overpromise and are able to deliver on commitments and balance competing priorities. Accountability: You own your mistakes, apologize, and make amends. Vault: You don’t share information or experiences that are not yours to share. I need to know that my confidences are
		- that you’re not sharing with me any information about other people that should be confidential. Integrity: You choose courage over comfort. You choose what is right over what is fun, fast, or easy. And you choose to practice your values rather than simply professing them. Nonjudgment: I can ask for what I need, and you can ask for what you need. We can talk about how we feel without judgment. We can ask each other for help without judgment. Generosity: You extend the most generous interpretation possible to the intentions, words, and actions of others.
		- Self-trust is normally the first casualty of failure or mistakes. We stop trusting ourselves when we hurt others, get hurt, feel shame, or question our worth
		- Betrayal is so painful because, at its core, it is a violation of trust. It happens in relationships in which trust is expected and assumed, so when it’s violated, we’re often shocked, and we can struggle to believe what’s happening. It can feel as if the ground beneath us has given way.
		- It’s possible to heal betrayal, but it’s rare because it requires significant courage and vulnerability to hear the pain we’ve caused without becoming defensive
		- At its core, defensiveness is a way to protect our ego and a fragile self-esteem.
		- the opposite of a fragile self-esteem is grounded confidence. With grounded confidence, we accept our imperfections and they don’t diminish our self-worth.
		- But I have found some ways to disarm my defensiveness. My strategy is to subtly open my palms, even if my hands are just hanging by my side or on my lap, and actually say, “I’m sorry. Can you say that again? I really want to understand.”
		- According to the Gottman Institute, flooding is “a sensation of feeling psychologically and physically overwhelmed during conflict, making it virtually impossible to have a productive, problem-solving discussion.”
		- The definition of hurt from a team of researchers led by Anita Vangelisti goes a long way in explaining why acknowledging hurt is so difficult. They write, “Individuals who are hurt experience a combination of sadness at having been emotionally wounded and fear of being vulnerable to harm. When people feel hurt, they have appraised something that someone said or did as causing them emotional pain.”
		- hurt feelings are most often caused by people with whom we have close relationships when we feel devalued or rejected by the other person
		- Joy is sudden, unexpected, short-lasting, and high-intensity
		- Happiness is stable, longer-lasting, and normally the result of effort. It’s lower in intensity than joy, and more self-focused. With
		- Based on our research, I define joy as an intense feeling of deep spiritual connection, pleasure, and appreciation
		- while experiencing joy, we don’t lose ourselves, we become more truly ourselves. He suggests that with joy, colors seem brighter, physical movements feel freer and easier, and smiling happens involuntarily.
		- I define calm as creating perspective and mindfulness while managing emotional reactivity.
		- Calm is an intention. Do we want to infect people with more anxiety, or heal ourselves and the people around us with calm?
		- Do we match the pace of anxiety, or do we slow things down with breath and tone?
		- Do we have all the information we need to make a decision or form a response? What do we need to ask or learn?
		- I ask myself when I feel fear, panic, or anxiety rising: Do I have enough information to freak out? The answer is normally no. Will freaking out help? The answer is always no
		- I define contentment as the feeling of completeness, appreciation, and “enoughness” that we experience when our needs are satisfied.
		- gratitude makes us appreciate the value of something, and when we appreciate the value of something, we extract more benefits from it; we’re less likely to take it for granted. In effect, I think gratitude allows us to participate more in life. We notice the positives more, and that magnifies the pleasures you get from life. Instead of adapting to goodness, we celebrate goodness. We spend so much time watching things—movies, computer screens, sports—but with gratitude we become greater participants in our lives as opposed to spectators.
		- We either want things for the wrong reasons, then feel disappointed when we acquire them, or we just can’t accumulate enough to feel whole, so we accumulate and adapt, never valuing or appreciating.
		- Gratitude is an emotion that reflects our deep appreciation for what we value, what brings meaning to our lives, and what makes us feel connected to ourselves and others. While gratitude is an emotion, if we want to experience its full power, we must also make it a practice.
		- If you’re afraid to lean into good news, wonderful moments, and joy—if you find yourself waiting for the other shoe to drop—you are not alone. It’s called “foreboding joy,” and most of us experience it.
		- because we believe if we allow ourselves to feel joy, we are inviting disaster. We start dress-rehearsing tragedy in the best moments of our lives in order to stop vulnerability from beating us to the punch. We are terrified of being blindsided by pain
		- Anger is an action emotion—we want to do something when we feel it and when we’re on the receiving end of it.
		- live in a world where it’s much easier to say “I’m so pissed off” than “I feel so betrayed and hurt.” It’s even easier to say “I’m angry with myself” than “I’m disappointed with how I showed up.”
		- Sometimes owning our pain and bearing witness to struggle means getting angry. When we deny ourselves the right to be angry, we deny our pain.
		- And it’s critical to recognize that maintaining any level of rage, anger, or contempt (that favorite concoction of a little anger and a little disgust) over a long period of time is not sustainable.
		- Anger is a catalyst. Holding on to it will make us exhausted and sick
		- It’s an emotion that we need to transform into something life-giving: courage, love, change, compassion, justice.
		- Anger often masks emotions that are more difficult to name and/or more difficult to own. Just as an indicator light in our car tells us to pull over and check things out, anger is a very effective emotional indicator light that tells us to pull over and check things out. Anger, in response to experiencing or witnessing injustice, pain, and struggle, can be a powerful catalyst for change. But, by definition, a catalyst sparks change, it’s not the change.
		- When you communicate with contempt, the results can be cruel. Treating others with disrespect and mocking them with sarcasm and condescension are forms of contempt. So are hostile humor, name-calling, mimicking, and body language such as eye-rolling and sneering. In whatever form, contempt is poisonous to a relationship because it conveys disgust and superiority, especially moral, ethical, or characterological. Contempt, simply put, says, “I’m better than you. And you are lesser than me.”
		- Contempt results in distancing, ignoring, or excluding the contemptible person—they are not considered worthy of one’s time or energy.
		- a person feeling contempt often wants or needs to feel better about themselves, and they do so by diminishing the person who is the object of their contempt.
		- Contempt makes political compromise and progress impossible. It also makes us unhappy as people.
		- According to emotions research pioneer Paul Ekman, disgust “arises as a feeling of aversion towards something offensive.
		- disgust can rapidly lead to dehumanizing, othering, and marginalizing individuals or groups of people.
		- more dangerous is that once a target is viewed with disgust, this judgment seems to be permanent; evaluations of disgust seem to indicate a reprehensible moral character that is immutable and unforgivable. At least with anger, an apology or reparation has the potential to reverse the damage done.
		- Maiese defines dehumanization as “the psychological process of demonizing the enemy, making them seem less than human and hence not worthy of humane treatment.”
		- Dehumanizing others is the process by which we become accepting of violations against human nature, the human spirit, and, for many of us, violations against the central tenets of our faith.
		- Dehumanizing always starts with language, often followed by images
		- language we use to dehumanize is effective because it actually taps into “core disgust”—we reduce people to the types of things that make us physically recoil
		- With the same amount of power, language can also be used to strip people of their dignity and humanity. With awareness about how dehumanization works comes the responsibility to call out dangerous language when we recognize it.
		- a lack of direct contact with such individuals can actually strengthen hate. This confirms my belief that people are harder to hate close up, and easier to hate when we’re behind our ideological bunker and they’re behind theirs.
		- Hate crimes are meant to terrorize more than a single person; the goal is to embed fear so deeply in the heart of a community that fear becomes a crushing way of life for everyone who shares that identity
		- Self-righteousness is the conviction that one’s beliefs and behaviors are the most correct.” People who exhibit self-righteousness see things as black and white—they tend to be closed-minded, inflexible, intolerant of ambiguity, and less likely to consider others’ opinions.
		- In the case of righteousness, we are appropriately reacting to a true injustice, we are trying to do the right thing. When feeling self-righteous, we feel morally superior to others and are trying to convince ourselves or others that we are doing the right thing.
		- Pride is a feeling of pleasure or celebration related to our accomplishments or efforts. Hubris is an inflated sense of one’s own innate abilities that is tied more to the need for dominance than to actual accomplishments. Humility is openness to new learning combined with a balanced and accurate assessment of our contributions, including our strengths, imperfections, and opportunities for growth. We really get this wrong. More to come.
		- Authentic pride typically has a positive connotation and descriptors that include words like “accomplishment,” “mastery,” “triumph,” “confidence,” and “self-worth.” It is positively associated with self-esteem and negatively associated with shame-proneness.
		- Hubris is an inflated sense of one’s own innate abilities that is tied more to the need for dominance than to actual accomplishments.
		- Humility is openness to new learning combined with a balanced and accurate assessment of our contributions, including our strengths, imperfections, and opportunities for growth.
		- I’m here to get it right, not to be right. What humility isn’t: downplaying yourself or your accomplishments, which according to researchers is modesty, not humility. It’s also not low self-esteem or meekness or letting people walk all over you.
		- The emotion of humility involves understanding our contributions in context, in relation to both the contributions of others and our own place in the universe. It’s different from pride in that when we feel pride, we focus entirely on the positive aspects of a specific accomplishment
		- People who demonstrate intellectual humility don’t lack confidence or conviction. They may hold strong views, but they are also open to hearing other points of view. They are curious and willing to adjust their beliefs when faced with new or conflicting information. Humility allows us to admit when we are wrong—we realize that getting it right is more important than needing to “prove” that we are right.
		- Our armoring behaviors keep us from showing up in ways that are aligned with our values. As we learn to recognize and remove our armor, we replace it with grounded confidence
		- The near enemy of walking alongside is controlling the path. Sometimes it can look and feel like someone is with us, but really they’re trying to control either us or the outcome
		- Power with is “based on mutual support, solidarity, collaboration and recognition and respect for differences.” Power to is “based on the belief that each individual has the power to make a difference.” Power within is defined by an ability to recognize differences and respect others, grounded in a strong foundation of self-worth and self-knowledge
		- Story stewardship means honoring the sacred nature of story—the ones we share and the ones we hear—and knowing that we’ve been entrusted with something valuable or that we have something valuable that we should treat with respect and care.
		- The greatest threat to story stewardship is the two near enemies of building narrative trust: narrative takeover and narrative tap-out. Rather than building trust by acknowledging, affirming, and believing, we shut people down when we experience discomfort or disinterest, or when we take over the narrative and make it about us or our perception of what happened
		- Rather than being good stewards of a story, we hijack the story and center ourselves. That centering takes many different shapes, including shifting the focus to us, questioning or not believing what someone is sharing because it’s different than our lived experience, or diminishing the importance of an experience because it makes us feel uncomfortable or, worse, complicit.
		- story stewardship is not walking in someone else’s shoes, it’s being curious and building narrative trust as they tell you about the experience of being in their own shoes. It’s about believing people when they tell you what an experience meant to them.
		- Don’t look away. Don’t look down
		- Don’t pretend not to see hurt. Look people in the eye. Even when their pain is overwhelming. And when you’re hurting and in pain, find the people who can look you in the eye.
		- Our connection with others can only be as deep as our connection with ourselves. If I don’t know and understand who I am and what I need, want, and believe, I can’t share myself with you. I need to be connected to myself, in my own body, and learning what makes me work
		- My hope is that we find that solid ground within us, that shore that offers safe harbor when we’re feeling untethered and adrift. The more confident we are about being able to navigate to that place, the more daring our adventures, and the more connected we are to ourselves and each other. The real gift of learning language, practicing this work, and cultivating meaningful connection is being able to go anywhere without the fear of getting lost. Even when we have no idea where we are or where we’re going, with the right map, we can find our way back to our heart and to our truest self.
	- **Insights**
		- Insert key insights
	-