-
	- Title:: The Mountain Is You
	  Author:: Brianna Wiest
	  Tags::
	- **Quotes**
		- Historically, mountains have been used as metaphors for spiritual awakenings, journeys of personal growth, and of course, insurmountable challenges that seem impossible to overcome when we are standing at the bottom
		- Everything in nature is imperfect, and it is because of that imperfection that growth is possible. If everything existed in uniformity, the gravity that created the stars and planets and everything that we know would not exist. Without breaks, faults, and gaps, nothing could grow and nothing would become.2
		- When we self-sabotage, it is often because we have a negative association between achieving the goal we aspire to and being the kind of person who has or does that thing.
		- Once you begin to really question and observe these preexisting beliefs, you begin to see how warped and illogical they were all along—not to mention distinctly holding you back from your ultimate potential.
		- When we are in denial, we tend to go into “blame” mode. We look for anyone or anything to explain why we are the way we are. Then we start justifying
		- The greatest act of self-love is to no longer accept a life you are unhappy with. It is to be able to state the problem plainly and in a straightforward manner
		- It is okay if you are starting at the beginning.   It is okay if you are at rock bottom and cannot yet see your way through.   It is okay if you are at the foot of your mountain and have failed every time you’ve tried to overcome it.   Rock bottom is very often where we begin on our healing journey.
		- When you decide you truly do not ever want to feel a certain way again, you set out on a journey of self-awareness, learning, and growth that has you radically reinvent who you are.   In that moment, fault becomes irrelevant. You’re no longer mulling over who did what or how you’ve been wronged. In that moment, only one thing guides you, and it is this: No matter what it takes, I will never accept my life getting to this point again.
		- Human beings are guided by comfort. They stay close to what feels familiar and reject what doesn’t, even if it’s objectively better for them.
		- If you really want to change your life, let yourself be consumed with rage: not toward others, not with the world, but within yourself.   Get angry, determined, and allow yourself to develop tunnel vision with one thing and one thing only at the end: that you will not go on as you are.
		- Your new life is going to cost you your old one.   It’s going to cost you your comfort zone and your sense of direction.   It’s going to cost you relationships and friends.   It’s going to cost you being liked and understood.   It doesn’t matter.   The people who are meant for you are going to meet you on the other side. You’re going to build a new comfort zone around the things that actually move you forward
		- Remaining attached to your old life is the first and final act of self-sabotage, and releasing it is what we must prepare for to truly be willing to see real change
		- you might run into other emotions such as anger, sadness, or inadequacy. When those feelings come up, it is very important to make space for them. This means to allow them to rise up in your body and observe them. Watch where they make you tense up or constrict. Feel what they want you to feel
		- If you are angry about how one of your parents treated you, it probably won’t come as a surprise that the core feeling of why you are sabotaging your relationships is anger and mistrust. The feelings associated with self-sabotage are not usually random
		- To fully release those feelings once you are aware of them, try writing yourself a letter. Write something to your younger self or from the perspective of your future self. Write down a mantra or a manifesto. Remind yourself that you love yourself too much to settle for less, or that it is okay to be angry in unfair or frustrating circumstances
		- Sometimes, we just get used to living a certain way and fail to have a vision for how life could be different. Sometimes, we make choices because we don’t know how to make better ones or that anything else is even possible. Sometimes, we settle for what we’re handed because we don’t know we can ask for more
		- We are held back because we don’t feel like making change, and so we don’t.   The truth is that you can have a vision of what you want, know that it is undoubtedly right for you, and simply not feel like taking the action required to pursue that path.
		- We begin to crave what we repeatedly do, but the first few times we do it, we often feel uncomfortable. The trick is being able to override that initial hesitation so we are guiding our lives with logic and reason, not emotionality
		- Though your emotions are always valid and need to be validated, they are hardly ever an accurate measure of what you are capable of in life.
		- You may feel as though you are worthless, but you most certainly are not. You may feel as though there is no hope, but there most certainly is. You may feel as though everyone dislikes you, but that is probably a gross over-exaggeration. You may think everyone is judging you, but that is a misperception.   Most importantly, you may feel as though you cannot take action, when you most certainly can. You simply do not feel willing, because you are not used to it.
		- To rise up to meet this version of our lives, we must overcome our resistance and discomfort. We will not feel happy initially, no matter how “right” for us those actions are.
		- if you’re keeping something in your life, there has to be a reason you want it there. The only question is why.
		- Taking action builds momentum and creates motivation. These feelings will not come to you spontaneously; you have to generate them. You have to inspire yourself, you have to move.
		- Being successful can make you less liked. Finding love can make you more vulnerable.   Making yourself less attractive can guard you. Playing small allows you to avoid scrutiny. Procrastinating puts you back in a place of comfort.
		- Resistance is what happens when we have a new project that we need to work on and simply can’t bring ourselves to do it
		- We often feel resistance in the face of what’s going right in our lives, not what’s going wrong.
		- Resistance is not the same thing as procrastination or indifference and shouldn’t be treated as such. When we are experiencing resistance, there is always a reason, and we have to pay attention
		- Instead, releasing resistance requires us to refocus. We have to get clear on what we want as well as when and why we want it. We have to identify unconscious beliefs that are preventing us from showing up, and then we have to step back into the work when we feel inspired. Wanting is the entryway to showing up after resistance.
		- Your upper limit is essentially the amount of “good” that you’re comfortable having in your life. It is your tolerance and threshold for having positive feelings or experiencing positive events.
		- Uprooting happens when someone finds themselves jumping from relationship to relationship or changing their business website again and again, when they really need to focus on confronting relationship issues when they arise or taking care of clients they already have. In uprooting, you are not allowing yourself to blossom; you are only comfortable with the process of sprouting
		- Uprooting can be a way of diverting attention from the actual problems in your life, as your attention must go toward reestablishing oneself at a new job or in a new town.
		- What would it look like to choose one place to live, then build connections there? What would it look like to work at the same place and move up in your position or build your business?
		- Perfectionism  isn’t  actually  wanting  everything  to  be right. It’s not a good thing. In fact, it is a hindering thing, because it sets up unrealistic expectations about what we are capable of or what the outcomes of our lives could be
		- Perfectionism holds us back from showing up and trying, or really doing the important work of our lives
		- Don’t worry about doing it well; just do it.
		- The truth is that we actually do not accomplish great feats when we are anxious about whether or not what we do will indeed be something impressive and world-changing. We accomplish these sorts of things when we simply show up and allow ourselves to create something meaningful and important to us.   Instead of perfection, focus on progress. Instead of having something done perfectly, focus on just getting it done
		- When you are only able to process half of your emotions, you stunt yourself. You start going out of your way to avoid any possible situation that could bring up something frustrating or uncomfortable, because you have no tools to be able to handle that feeling. This means that you start avoiding the very risks and actions that would ultimately change your life for the better.
		- You sit and dwell on your anger and sadness because you don’t know how to make them go away. When we can only process half of our emotions, we ultimately only live half of the life we really want to.
		- Get clear on what happened.    • Validate your feelings.   • Determine a course correction.   First, you need to understand why you’re upset or the reason why something is bothering you so much
		- Next, you have to validate how you feel. Recognize that you are not alone; anyone in your situation would probably feel similarly (and does) and that what you feel is absolutely okay. In
		- Once you are clear on what’s wrong and have allowed yourself to fully express the extent of your emotions, you can determine how you will change your behavior or thought process so that you get an outcome that you really want in the future.
		- Your life is ultimately measured by your outcomes, not your intentions. It is not about what you wanted to do or would have done but didn’t have the time. It’s not about why you thought you couldn’t; it’s just whether or not you eventually did. When you’re in a pattern of self-sabotaging behavior, you’re often treating those excuses the same way you would treat measurable outcomes: You’re using them to make yourself feel momentarily satisfied, using them as a replacement for the accomplishment itself.   When we have a goal, dream, or plan, there is no measure of intent. It is only whether you did it or did not
		- Start measuring your outcomes and focusing on at least doing one productive thing each day.   It’s no longer about how many days you really wanted to go to the gym; it’s about how many days you did. It’s no longer about wanting to show up for your friends; it’s whether or not you did
		- Start quantifying your days by how many healthy, positive things you accomplished, and you will see how quickly you begin to make progress.
		- Sometimes, your dreams for your life are adopted from other people’s preferences. In other cases, you determine what you want and then you outgrow your old ambitions.
		- Do I actually want to do this? Do you want the job, or do you just like how the title sounds? Are you in love with the person, or do you like the idea of the relationship?
		- We do not have to live the rest of our lives trying to achieve some measure of success we thought was ideal when we were too young to understand who we even were. Our only responsibility is to make decisions for the person we have become.
		- Be willing to accept that maybe your “success story” doesn’t look the way that you once thought it might.   Maybe the kind of success you’re really hungry for is to feel at peace each day, or making your life about travel instead of work
		- When we let go of what isn’t right for us, we create space to discover what is. However, doing so requires the tremendous courage to put our pride aside and see things for what they really are.
		- If we feel bad about not being as successful as another person, we might try to find something negative about them to make ourselves feel better. If we do that every time we come across a person who is more successful than we are, we begin to associate that level of success with being disliked.
		- When we set up judgments for others, they become rules that we have to play by, too. By judging others for what we don’t have or because we envy them, we sabotage our own lives far more than we ever really hurt anybody else.
		- Practice non-judgment through non-assumption. Instead of reaching a conclusion about a person based on the limited information you have about them, consider that you’re not seeing the whole picture and don’t know the whole story
		- Instead of thinking that we need to prove to everyone around us how perfect and flawless we are, we can imagine ourselves more realistically: as people who, despite our weaknesses, are trying our best.
		- People will respect you far more if you can acknowledge that you are an imperfect person—like everyone else—learning, adapting, and trying your best.
		- When it comes to success, guilt is an unfortunately common emotion, especially for good-hearted people who want to do the right thing and live authentic lives.
		- What you have to realize is that money and success are tools. They buy you back time and offer you the opportunity to help, employ, influence, and change the lives of others. Instead of looking at your success as a status differentiator—which will always make you feel bad and uncomfortable—see it instead as a tool with which you can do important and positive things in the world and your own life.
		- As scary as it might be to not be great at something initially, or perhaps even experience a loss, it is even worse to fail by virtue of never trying and always playing small.
		- When we fail out of negligence, we take a step back. When we fail because we are attempting new feats, we take one step closer to what will work.
		- Though so many of us long for the moment when we feel as though we have finally arrived and achieved the measures of success we so deeply desire, we often receive them only to then feel as though they aren’t that great, impressive, or that they don’t make us feel as good as we thought they would.
		- The idea of having “made it” makes us afraid that we are reaching the pinnacle and therefore will fall off of it. If we acknowledge that we’ve arrived, what goals remain?
		- We can all acknowledge and appreciate other people’s diverse accomplishments and talents while still being happy about our own.
		- Instead, we can acknowledge that when one part of our life improves, it radiates out to everything else. When we achieve one thing, we are better equipped for the future.
		- At the core of all these behaviors is the fact that one part of our psyche understands that we should be evolving and moving forward with our lives and another part is intimidated by the potential discomfort it would bring
		- What does a healthy life look like for you? How would it make you feel, and what would you be doing?
		- Nobody is “busy” unless they want to be busy, and you will know that because so many people with extremely hectic schedules would never describe themselves that way
		- Being busy communicates importance; it often makes you seem a little untouchable to others. It also overwhelms the body so that it can only focus on the tasks at hand. Being busy is the ultimate way to distract ourselves from what’s really wrong.
		- If your issue is that you intentionally create chaos and busyness in your day when there is no need for it, you have to get comfortable with simplicity and routine. Start with writing down your top 5 tasks that need to be done each day, and then focus on doing those and only those.
		- If you find yourself preoccupied with a certain friendship or relationship that is making you feel almost addicted to the feeling of being “less than” or “jealous of,” you need to gradually phase out of it. You don’t need to be mean, rude, or even cut anyone out of your life.   You do, however, need to understand that the people you spend the most time with will shape your future irrevocably, and so you must choose them wisely.
		- Work on building a circle of people who support and inspire you, who have similar goals and enjoy spending time with you. You should leave a get-together feeling energized and inspired, not exhausted and angry
		- Another very common way that people sabotage without realizing is by preoccupying themselves with fears of worst-case scenarios.
		- When you find yourself in a fear cycle, constantly repeating some strange, random, or unimportant one-off circumstance or situation that has a very low probability of becoming reality, ask yourself if you have any feelings about something related that is actually valid
		- Instead of wasting all of your energy trying to control some worst-case scenario, consider what the message of the fear may be and what it is telling you that you need in your life.
		- At the core of the things we most fear is a message that we are trying to send ourselves about what we really care about. If we can identify what we want to protect, we can find healthier and more secure ways to do it.
		- YOU CARE MORE ABOUT CONVINCING OTHER PEOPLE YOU’RE OKAY THAN ACTUALLY BEING OKAY.
		- YOUR MAIN PRIORITY IN LIFE IS TO BE LIKED, EVEN IF THAT COMES AT THE EXPENSE OF BEING HAPPY.   You think more about whether or not your actions will earn you the approval of “people” (who are “people,” by the way?) rather than whether or not they will actually make you feel fulfilled and content with who you are.
		- YOU’RE MORE AFRAID OF YOUR FEELINGS THAN ANYTHING ELSE.   If you get to the point in life at which the scariest, most detrimental thing you face is the fear of whether or not you will be able to handle your own emotions, you are the one standing in your own way—nothing else is.
		- YOU’RE BLINDLY CHASING GOALS  WITHOUT ASKING YOURSELF WHY YOU WANT THOSE THINGS.   If you are doing “everything you are supposed to be doing” and yet you feel empty and depressed at the end of the day, the issue is probably that you’re not really doing what you want to be doing; you’ve just adopted someone else’s script for happiness.
		- YOU VALUE YOUR DOUBT MORE THAN YOUR POTENTIAL.   Negativity bias makes us believe that “bad” things are more real than good, and unless we keep that inclination in check, it can leave us believing that everything we fear to be true is more real than the good things that are actually true.
		- YOU DON’T REALIZE HOW FAR YOU’VE COME.   You are not the person you were five years ago. You evolve as your self-image does, so make sure that it’s an accurate one. Give yourself credit for everything you’ve overcome that you never thought you would, and everything you’ve built that you never thought you could. You’ve come so much farther than you think, and you’re so much closer than you realize.
		- You can identify your core commitments by looking at the things that you struggle with most and the things you are most driven by. If you can peel back the layers of your motivations toward each, you’ll find a root cause. When you find the same root cause for everything, you’ve found a core commitment.
		- But the most important thing to understand is that your core commitments are actually a cover-up for core needs. Your core need is the opposite of your core commitment. Your core need is also another way to identify your purpose. For example, if your subconscious core commitment is to be in control, your core need is trust. If your subconscious core commitment is to be needed, your core need is to know you are wanted. If your subconscious core commitment is to be loved by others, your need is self-love.
		- If you are committed to freedom and therefore need a sense of autonomy, the less that you build a life on your own terms, the more you are going to sabotage opportunities and feel drained and exhausted when you “should” feel happy.
		- The thing about overcoming self-sabotage is that we don’t often need to be told what to do. We know what we want to do, and we know what we need to do. It is simply that we are being held back by our fear of feeling.
		- When you start to feel resistance, you don’t want to just “push through it.” In fact, trying to do that means you’ll keep hitting the same wall that you’re up against already. You’re going to strengthen the self-sabotaging behavior because you aren’t really solving the problem by just trying to override it
		- Why do I feel this way?   What is this feeling trying to tell me about the action I am trying to take?   Is there something I need to learn here?   What do I need to do to honor my needs right now?
		- Ultimately, anger is trying to mobilize us, to initiate action. Anger is transformative, and it is often the peak state we reach before we truly change our lives. This is because anger is not intended to be projected onto someone else; rather, it’s an influx of motivation that helps us change what we need to change within our lives
		- Sadness is the normal and correct response to the loss of something you very much love.
		- Sadness only becomes problematic when we do not allow ourselves to go through the natural phases of grief. Sadness does not release itself all at once.
		- We do not ever need to feel embarrassed or wrong for needing to cry, feel down, or miss what we no longer have. In fact, crying at appropriate times is one of the biggest signs of mental strength
		- Guilt tends to affect us more for what we didn’t do than what we did. In fact, people who struggle the most with guilt are the people who are not actually guilty of something terrible.
		- Embarrassment is what we feel when we know that we did not behave in a way that we are proud of.
		- When you are truly and completely confident that you are doing the best you can with what you have in front of you, you stop feeling embarrassed all the time
		- If you want to know what you truly want out of life, look at the people who you are jealous of. No, you may not want exactly what they have, but the feeling that you are experiencing is anger that they are allowing themselves to pursue it while you are not.
		- When we see someone who has something we really want but we are suppressing our willingness to pursue it, we must also condemn it in them so we can justify our own course of action.
		- When we resent people, it is often because they did not live up to the expectation of them that we had in our minds.   Resentment in some ways is like a projected regret. Instead of trying to show us what we should change, it seems to want to tell us what other people should change
		- Other people are not here to love us perfectly; they are here to teach us lessons to show us how to love them—and ourselves—better.   When we release the ideas we have about who they should be, we can see them for who they are and the role they are meant to play in our lives
		- regret is also another way that we show ourselves not what we wish we could have done in the past, but what we absolutely need to create going forward.   The truth is that most people regret what they did not do more than they ever regret what they did.
		- Didn’t  travel  when  you  were  young?  Regret  is  showing you that you should do it now. Didn’t look as nice as you wanted to? Regret is showing you that you should try harder. Made choices that didn’t reflect your best self? Regret is showing you that you should make different ones now. Didn’t love someone while you had them? Regret is showing you that you should appreciate people now.
		- The very act of holding these fearful thoughts within our minds is exactly how the fear is controlling us in the first place. It is derailing our lives right now, because we are channeling our energy into something that is outside of our control, as opposed to using it for everything that is actually within our control—the habits, actions, and behaviors that would actually move our lives forward.
		- The truth is that when we stop being afraid of what we cannot control and know instead that nothing can possibly ruin our lives more than we are ruining them with our negative, distracted, and irrational thinking and focus, we are completely freed.
		- There’s no such thing as self-sabotage because the behaviors that you think are holding you back are really just meeting your needs
		- Though many people are codependent and lean far too heavily on others to give them a sense of safety and self, leaning too far the other way—where you believe that you don’t need anyone or anything and that you can do everything yourself—is not healthy, either. They are two opposite manifestations of the same wounds, which are mistrust and the inability to connect.   Your need to feel validated is valid.   Your need to feel the presence of another person is valid.   Your need to feel wanted is valid.    Your need to feel secure is valid.
		- Human beings are hardwired for connection to others and to a group
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Feeling unhappy, even if nothing is wrong, and really, you’ve gotten everything you’ve wanted in life.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You are probably expecting outside things to make you feel good rather than relying on changing how you think and what you focus on. No outward accomplishment is going to give you a true and lasting sense of inner peace, and your discomfort, despite your accomplishments, is calling your attention to that.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Pushing people away.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You want people to love and accept you so much that the stress of it all makes you isolate yourself from the pain, effectively creating the reality you’re trying to avoid. Alternatively, needing solitude too often usually means there is a discrepancy between who you pretend to be and who you actually are. When you show up to your life more authentically, it becomes easier to have people around you, as it requires less effort.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Automatically believing what you think and feel is true.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You want to worry because it feels comfortable, and therefore safer. The more you blindly trust every random thought or feeling that passes through you, the more you are going to be at the whim of what’s happening around you. You must learn to steady yourself in clarity, truth, and groundedness, and to be able to mentally discern between what is helpful and what is not.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Overworking.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You do not have to prove your value. You do, however, have to stop running from the discomfort of being alone with your feelings, which is very often the reason that people overwork. There is a difference between being passionately committed to something and feeling obligated to outperform everyone else. One is healthy; the other is not.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Caring too much about what other people think.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You are not as happy as you think you are. The happier you are with something, the less you need other people to be. Instead of wondering whether or not someone else will think you are enough, stop and ask yourself: Is my life enough for me? How do you really feel about your life when you aren’t looking at it through the eyes of others?
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Choosing friends who always make you feel like you’re in competition with them.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: Wanting to feel “better” than people is not a replacement for needing to feel connected to them, but that’s often how we use it. We do this not because we actually want to be superior, but because we want to seem valuable and valued. What we want is authentic connection and to feel important to others, but making them feel inferior is not the way to accomplish it.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Having self-defeating thoughts that hold you back from doing what you want.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: Being mean to yourself first will not make it hurt less if other people judge or reject you, though that is why you are using this defense mechanism. Thinking the worst of yourself is a way of trying to numb yourself to what you really fear, which is that someone else could say those things about you. What you don’t realize is that you’re acting as your own bully and enemy by doing it to yourself. What could someone else’s judgment realistically do to your life? Honestly, it could stop you from pursuing your dreams, ambitions, and personal happiness. And that’s exactly what you’re doing when you stay fixated on those damaging ideas. It’s time to get out of your own way.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Ascribing intent or worrying that things are about you when they aren’t.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: You think about yourself too often. Other people’s lives do not revolve around you, nor do their thoughts. They are busy thinking about themselves in the same way that you are thinking about yourself. Remember that patterns in your life are indicative of your own behaviors, but imagining that every time someone cuts you off in traffic is a personal attack, you’re going to severely hold yourself back, because you’ll always be the victim of something.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Staying in a city or town you claim to dislike.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: Home is where you make it, not where you find it. Is this an issue of you being unable to move, or are you simply unwilling? Usually when we stay in the same place, there’s a reason. There’s something we love about it, and it’s where want to spend our lives. The resistance comes in because of the judgment we imagine others may think if they know we don’t live in the coolest, biggest, or the best area. You might also fear that people will judge you for not having “progressed” enough. The truth is that you are judging yourself, and you need to make peace or take pride in why you choose to live where you do.
		- THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Mindlessly scrolling through social media as a way to pass the time.   WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO KNOW: This is one of the easiest ways to numb yourself, because it is so accessible and addictive. There is a world-altering difference between using social media in a healthy way versus as a coping mechanism. Mostly, it has to do with how you feel after you’re finished. If you don’t put the phone down feeling inspired or relaxed, you’re probably trying to avoid some kind of discomfort within yourself—the very discomfort that just might be telling you that you need to change.
		- If you have an “instinct” about a future event, you’re projecting.   This is how you can start breaking down your “gut feelings.” Are you responding to someone who is in front of you, or are you responding to your idea of them in your head? Are you reacting to a situation that’s playing out right now, or are you reacting to one you imagine, assuming you know how it will go? Are your feelings regarding what’s happening right now or what you hope and fear will happen in the future?
		- You have to remember that your feelings, while valid, are not often real. They are not always accurate reflections of reality. They are, however, always accurate reflections of our thoughts. Our thoughts change our feelings
		- Your instinct doesn’t exist to ensure you feel comfortable and ecstatic at all hours of the day. It moves you toward what you’re meant to do, because it shows you where your interests, skills, and desires intersect.
		- You begin experiencing feelings of peace and joy in your life when you condition yourself to take repeated daily actions that facilitate clarity, calmness, healthfulness, and purposefulness, not the other way around.   If you want to master your life, you have to learn to organize your feelings. By becoming aware of them, you can trace them back to the thought process that prompted them, and from there you can decide whether or not the idea is an actual threat or concern, or a fabrication of your reptilian mind just trying to keep you alive.
		- You cannot have an instinct about a future event, because it doesn’t exist yet. You can have a fear-based or memory response that you are projecting into the future, but you cannot instinctively know something about another person or a future event until it is in front of you.
		- What is true when you are with another person, activity, or behavior? What is the deep, gut instinct that you get when you’re presently engaging with something?
		- When you start listening to yourself, you might find it hard to tell the difference between thoughts that are helpful and intuitive, and thoughts that are damaging and intrusive. They both function similarly—they are immediate, reactive, and offer some kind of previously unseen insight— and yet they function so completely differently in practice.
		- Intuitive thoughts are calm. Intruding thoughts are hectic and fear-inducing.
		- Intuitive thoughts are rational; they make a degree of sense. Intruding thoughts are irrational and often stem from aggrandizing a situation or jumping to the worst conclusion possible.
		- Intuitive thoughts help you in the present. They give you information that you need to make a better-informed decision. Intruding thoughts are often random and have nothing to do with what’s going on in the moment.
		- Intuitive thoughts are “quiet”; intruding thoughts are “loud,” which makes one harder to hear than the other
		- Intuitive thoughts usually come to you once, maybe twice, and they induce a feeling of understanding. Intruding thoughts tend to be persistent and induce a feeling of panic.
		- Intuitive thoughts often sound loving, while invasive thoughts sound scared.
		- Intuitive thoughts usually come out of nowhere; invasive thoughts are usually triggered by external stimuli.
		- Intuitive thoughts don’t need to be grappled with— you have them and then you let them go. Invasive thoughts begin a whole spiral of ideas and fears, making it feel impossible to stop thinking about them.
		- Even  when  an  intuitive  thought  doesn’t  tell  you something you like, it never makes you feel panicked. Even if you experience sadness or disappointment, you don’t feel overwhelmingly anxious. Panic is the emotion you experience when you don’t know what to do with a feeling. It is what happens when you have an invasive thought.
		- Intuitive thoughts open your mind to other possibilities; invasive thoughts close your heart and make you feel stuck or condemned
		- Intuitive thoughts come from the perspective of your best self; invasive thoughts come from the perspective of your most fearful, small self.
		- Intuitive thoughts solve problems; invasive thoughts create them.
		- Intuitive thoughts help you help others; invasive thoughts tend to create a “me vs. them” mentality
		- Intuitive thoughts help you understand what you’re thinking and feeling; invasive thoughts assume what other people are thinking and feeling.
		- Intuitive thoughts show you how to respond; invasive thoughts demand that you react.
		- Understanding your needs, meeting the ones you are responsible for, and then allowing yourself to show up so others can meet the ones you can’t do on your own will help you break the self-sabotage cycle and build a healthier, more balanced and fulfilling life.
		- Emotional intelligence is the ability to understand, interpret, and respond to your emotions in an enlightened and healthy way.   People with high emotional intelligence are often able to better get along with different types of people, feel more contentment and satisfaction in their everyday lives, and consistently take time to process and express their authentic feelings.
		- When we imagine what goals we want to achieve, we often do so with the expectation that they will elevate our quality of life in some tangible way, and once we have arrived at that place, we will be able to “coast.”   “Coast” as in, let go. Relax into life. Let things be for a while. That is not what happens.
		- Neurologically, when we get something we really want, we just start to want more.
		- We know instinctively that “arriving” won’t really give us the ability to abstain from life; it will only make us hungrier for more. Sometimes, we don’t feel up to that challenge.
		- What happens when we start to chase what we really want: We resist doing the work that it takes to actually get it because we are so afraid of not having it, any brush with failure makes us rescind our effort and tense up.   When we go so long not having what we really want, we create subconscious associations between having it and “being bad,” because we have judged others for having it.   When we get it, we fear losing it so badly that we push it away from ourselves so as to not have to withstand the pain.   We are so deeply enmeshed in the mental state of “wanting,” we cannot shift to a state of “having.”
		- When we are so scared that we are going to lose something, we tend to push it away from ourselves first as a means of self-preservation.
		- When we are so deeply enmeshed in the feeling of “wanting,” it becomes extremely hard to adjust to the experience of “having.”   This is because any change, no matter how positive, is uncomfortable until it is also familiar.
		- It is even more difficult to acknowledge that very often, the things we envy in others are fragments of our deepest desires, the ones we won’t allow ourselves to have.
		- What this teaches us is that when we are going through a healing or changing process in our lives, we have to allow our bodies to adjust to their new sense of normalcy. This is why all change, no matter how good, will be uncomfortable until it is also familiar
		- We cannot live being governed by how we feel. Our emotions are temporary and not always reflective of reality.
		- Think of microshifts as tiny increments of change in your day-to-day life. A microshift is changing what you eat for one part of one meal just one time. Then it’s doing that a second time and a third
		- If you want to change your life, you need to make tiny, nearly undetectable decisions every hour of every day until those choices are habituated. Then you’ll just continue to do them.
		- Can’t we just enjoy what we have and be grateful? To a point, absolutely.   But our minds also need adversity, and that’s why it’s instinctual to keep creating problems—even if there aren’t any real ones in front of us.
		- Choosing to exit your comfort zone and endure pain for a worthy cause.   Focusing on problems that are real problems in the world, like hunger or politics or whatever else.   But most importantly, it’s about staying engaged with what we can control in life, which is most things if you really think about it
		- Anything that is new, even if it is good, will feel uncomfortable until it is also familiar.
		- any accomplishments, achievements, or life changes, no matter how positive, elicit change. Change elicits stress. This is particularly true for those who are already predisposed to anxiety and depression, because the concept of one’s comfort zone is absolutely essential to stabilizing their mood
		- Adjustment shock can bring feelings of intense fear. This is because when we attain something we very much care about or have worked toward for a long time, our instinct can be to shield ourselves from the potential loss of it by putting up walls and desensitizing ourselves to the experience.
		- We often resist most deeply the things that we want most.
		- If all we are accustomed to is doing what we need to do to survive, we are then confronted with the next phases of our self-actualization.   If we are no longer worried about basic survival, our minds are free to turn to the bigger questions in life: What is our purpose? Have we lived meaningfully? Are we who we want to be?
		- Your big life change is going to force you to level up in every way imaginable, and the way to overcome the initial fear of stepping into the unknown is to familiarize yourself with it, to make it a part of you, one that you are certain you are prepared for—and that you deserve.
		- Psychic thinking is assuming you know what somebody else is thinking or what they intend to do. It is assuming that the least likely outcome is the most viable outcome, because you feel it most strongly. It is believing that you have missed out on “another life,” a path you did not choose, that you were possibly more meant for. It is believing that the person with whom you have the most electric connection is your most ideal life partner.
		- There is no such thing as the path we could have taken, only a projection of our needs and desires onto another fantastical idea of what our lives might be
		- Extrapolation is when we take our current circumstances and then project them out into the future
		- Extrapolation makes us think that we are the sum of our past or current experiences, that whatever stressors or anxieties we are currently experiencing are ones that we will grapple with for the rest of our lives. Unable to see through the problem at hand, we assume it will never resolve itself.
		- The spotlight effect is what happens when we imagine that our lives are performative, or “on display” for others to consume.
		- Spotlighting gives us the false impression that the world is all about us, when it is not.   These biases plus others, when combined with psychic thinking, or the idea that our assumptions and feelings about the world will transpose into reality, are harmful and mostly incorrect. Instead of trying to predict what will happen next, our energy is better used when it’s focused intently on the moment
		- If we want to heal, we have to learn to process.
		- You’re jumping to the worst-case  scenario  because  you  aren’t  thinking  clearly, and then you are engaging your fight-or-flight response because the worst-case scenario makes you feel threatened
		- When you experience a logical lapse, the climax becomes the conclusion. You imagine a situation, you figure that you would panic, and then because you’re scared, you never think through the rest of the scenario. You never think about how you’d get through it, what you’d do to respond, and how you’d eventually move on with your life afterwards
		- mental strength is not just hoping that nothing ever goes wrong. It is believing that we have the capacity to handle it if it does.   Maybe you don’t have that self-belief yet. That’s okay. It’s not something you’re born with; it’s something you build slowly and over time. It’s something you develop with practice, by addressing small problems, and then learning healthy coping mechanisms and effective reasoning skills.
		- To heal, we don’t need to avoid it. We need to develop logic to see situations for what they are and respond appropriately to them.
		- A faulty inference is when you come up with a false conclusion based on valid evidence.
		- A false dichotomy happens when you assume that there are only two possibilities that could be valid, when in reality, there are far more that you simply aren’t aware of
		- Correcting faulty inferencing begins with first being aware that you’re doing it. In the majority of cases, once you realize that you’re thinking in a false dichotomy or making a hasty generalization, you stop doing it. You understand what it is, and you let it go.
		- What you consistently do is what you adapt to. Your brain will start to reorient your comfort zone, and eventually it will feel as natural to think logically as it once did to think dramatically. It will feel as natural to be calm as it does now to feel anxious. It takes awareness, and it takes time. But it is always possible
		- If we imagine our worst fears, we can prepare for them. If we mull them over again and again, we can feel protected in a way. If we are ready for the storm, it can’t hurt us.   Except it can.
		- Worrying is a subconscious defense mechanism. It’s what we do when we care about something so much we are equally terrified that it could hurt us, so we prepare to fight for it.   What is the exact opposite of your fear? That’s what you want. That’s what you want so much that you’d go to the ends of your sanity to defend it.
		- Worrying sensitizes us to an infinity of negative possible outcomes. It shifts our mindset to expect, seek out, and create a worst-case scenario. If a crisis were to occur, we’d start panicking, because our brains and bodies had been preparing for this epic war for a long time
		- Rather than spending your time rehearsing how much you’d panic if such-and-such a situation were to come to fruition, imagine how a third party would handle it if they were in your shoes. Imagine getting to the other side of the issue, perhaps even treating it as an opportunity to create something you otherwise couldn’t.   Rather than spending your time shrinking yourself and your life out of fear of potentially confronting some kind of hardship, work on developing your self-esteem and know that even if you were to fail, you wouldn’t be judged, exiled, or hated in the way you fear.   Rather than spending your life trying to identify the next thing to worry about and then “overcome,” learn to move into a new pattern of thinking in which you recognize that you don’t need to balance out the bad with the good to live a full and fair life. Stability and wholeness, health and vitality are your birthright. You are allowed to have everything you want. You are permitted to be at peace
		- We are in pain because though we must change our lives, we are holding onto baggage and debris from the past. As we carry unresolved emotions from day to day, we gradually move our past trauma into our future lives.
		- Recovering from self-sabotage always necessitates a process of letting go.
		- You do not let go by simply willing yourself not to care anymore. This is something that people who have never been really, really hung up on something would assume. This is something that people who have never been deeply attached to something for a sense of safety and security and love and their future believe
		- You start to let go on the day you realize that you cannot continue to revolve around a missing gap in your life, and going on as you were before will simply not be an option.
		- You start to let go at the moment you realize that this is the impetus, this is the catalyst, this is that moment the movies are made about and the books are written around and songs are inspired by
		- You can only move on if you start building something new.   You let go when you build a new life so immersive and engaging and exciting, you slowly, over time, forget about the past.
		- So don’t tell yourself to let go.   Instead, tell yourself that you can cry for as long as you need. That you can fall to pieces and be a mess and let your life collapse and crumble. Tell yourself that you can let your foundation fall through.   What you will realize is that you are still standing.   What you build in the wake and the aftermath of loss will be so profound, so stunning, you will realize that maybe the loss was part of the plan.
		- If you are certain that you cannot let go of what is hurting you, then don’t.   But take one step today, and another tomorrow, to rebuild a new life for yourself. Piece by piece, day by day
		- Everything you lose becomes something you are profoundly grateful for. With time, you see that it was not the path. It was what was standing in your way.
		- We weren’t broken by a breakup; we were broken by wanting love that wasn’t right for us. We weren’t devastated by a loss; we were devastated because we wanted, so badly, for that person or thing to remain in our lives.
		- Follow the feeling and ask it to show you where it started. You’ll remember a time, place, or experience. Sometimes, the memory is fresh enough that you don’t need to do this, and you can simply reenter the memory by imagining that you are back where it all began.   Now what you have to do is to superimpose a narrative to your younger self. You need to imagine that you, your healed and happy older self, is imparting some wisdom.   Imagine sitting next to your younger self as they got their heart broken and giving them very specific instructions about why this is absolutely for the best and although they cannot know it yet, there is another relationship out there that is far, far better.    Imagine sitting next to your younger self when they felt really down and giving them the exact instructions regarding what they need to do to feel better: who they need to call, where they need to go, what they need to begin doing, and what they need to stop doing.   Most importantly, imagine telling your younger self that absolutely everything—yes, everything—is going to be okay. That their fears are largely unfounded, that good things are coming, and that life will turn out well in the end.   You have to do this to release the old attachment and allow that part of yourself to reattach to the present moment and what exists within it.
		- The truth is that when we are unhealthily attached to something in the past, our perspective of it is often distorted. We  aren’t  seeing  reality  for  what  it  was, and  we need to assist ourselves in being able to broaden our mindset and open up to the truth. Instead of longing for what we didn’t get then, we have to release ourselves from the past and start putting our energy into building that experience right now.    When we do this, we become free to step into the field of infinite potential. We become free to be who we always wanted, to create what we always wanted, and to have what we always wanted. The time is now, and the place is here
		- The wildest thing about life is how unassumingly it keeps moving. You lose the person closest to you and the world affords you a few days of grieving, and then you’re expected to just keep going. You go through something so life-shifting, mind-altering, and deeply traumatic, then find that society only has a small bandwidth for tolerating your fear.
		- You’re so many miles from where you started, you can’t even remember it clearly. What you’re underestimating is the fact that though you can leave a place, or a person, or a situation…you can’t leave yourself.
		- When your mind is stuck in the past, it isn’t because it wants to return there; it’s because you were impacted far more deeply than you ever realized, and the aftershocks are still rippling through you
		- You are not the person you were, even if all those pieces are still very much a part of you.   You are not broken for being in pain; you’re seeing yourself out of it.
		- You change your life when you start showing up exactly as you are. You change your life when you become comfortable with being happy here, even if you want to go forward. You change your life when you can love yourself even though you don’t look exactly the way you want to
		- You change your life when you start doing the truly scary thing, which is showing up exactly as you are.
		- When you start showing up as exactly who you are, you start radically changing your life.   You start receiving authentic love. You start doing your best and most profitable and effortless work. You start laughing; you start enjoying things again
		- When you start showing up exactly as you are, you cut the bullshit.   You declare to the world that you will not only love yourself when it sees you as worthy.   You will not only have values when you have everything you could ever need.   You will not only be principled once you get where you want to be.   You will not only be happy once someone loves you. When you show up as you are, you disrupt this pattern.   The goodness of life is no longer reserved for some version of you that you’ll probably never be.
		- In fact, the universe does not allow perfection. Without breaks and gaps, there would be no growth. Nature depends on imperfection. Fault lines make mountains, star implosions become supernovas, and the death of one season creates the rebirth of the next.   You are not here to live up to the exact expectation that you’ve mustered up in your head. You are not here to do everything precisely right and precisely on time. To do so would require stripping your life of spontaneity, curiosity, and awe.
		- What isn’t right for you will never remain in your life.
		- The truth is that what is right for you will come to you and stay with you and won’t stray from you for long. The truth is that when something is right for you, it brings you clarity, and when something is wrong for you, it brings you confusion.
		- Sometimes, we get lost in old dreams. We get lost in the lives others wanted us to have. We get stuck on what we thought we should be, what we assumed we would have. We get derailed by all the ideas floating around our heads about what it could be and should be if only things were different, if only everything would click.
		- there is nothing that makes us more insecure than hanging around what isn’t right for us.
		- What is not right for you does not remain with you because you don’t want it, and so you don’t choose it. You step away when you are ready, you let go when you are able, and you realize, all along, that all you were really in love with was a little trick of the light that made you feel safe.
		- If we are traumatized by a relationship, we restore the feeling of safety by working on other healthy, safe relationships.   If we are traumatized by money, we restore the feeling of safety by doing what we must to ensure we have enough and by saving for an emergency expense.   If we are traumatized by job loss, we restore the feeling of safety by having a backup plan or a side gig in line in case it were to happen again.   If we are traumatized by being bullied, we restore the feeling of safety by finding new friends.
		- Healing requires you to go through the full expression of every emotion that you cut off and buried when you decided you were no longer comfortable with it. Healing requires you to face every ounce of darkness within you, because just beneath what appears to be an impermeable barrier is complete, radical, total freedom.
		- Healing is not merely what makes us feel better the fastest. It is building the right life, slowly and over time. It is greeting ourselves at the reckoning, admitting where we’ve faltered. It is going back and resolving our mistakes, and going back within ourselves and resolving the anger and fear and small-mindedness that got us there in the first place.
		- Whenever we want desperately to prove someone else wrong, we are really trying to quell our own lingering disappointment that we didn’t live up to our own expectations.   So remember this: The next time you’re trying to craft a glow up story that is compelling to others, ask yourself why you are still waiting for their approval.   The answer, almost always, is that you still do not have your own.
		- A popular tool in psychotherapy is something called inner child work15, or the process of imagining and reconnecting with your younger self.
		- Then, invite your future self to come sit with you and talk. You can request that they are a certain age, but usually the age will just come to you when you see them.    Specifically ask for the highest possible version of yourself to sit down. If you see anything scary at first, know that it is your fear of what could happen manifesting in your mind, not the truth of what will happen.
		- You want to clearly envision the most ideal version of yourself so that you know how your own life needs to grow, shift, and change.   See what they wear, how they feel, what they do each day. These will be the keys to your own becoming.
		- keep yourself open to whatever this person wants to share with you. The messages should be positive, uplifting, affirming, and helpful. Even if they communicate something to you such as, you need to let go of this relationship, it should be done in a way that is so calming and reaffirming that you are confident and at peace with it.
		- we have to walk. We have to love. We have to experience life again. We have to slowly soften the pieces of us that are trying to protect us so that we can move forward.    Healing trauma is not just a matter of psychoanalyzing it. It is a matter of literally working through it physically. The next time you feel yourself overreacting to some kind of stimulus, you will notice that your body is starting to tense up and create a fight-or-flight response
		- To be a truly powerful person, you must be willing to be disliked. This is not to say that you behave in any way that’s malicious, but it is to say that no matter what you do, others are going to judge you. Powerful people know this. There is no path in life that you can take that will be free of resistance from others, and so it is important that you not only become okay with being disliked, but you anticipate it and act anyway.
		- To be a truly powerful person, you need to have complete, unwavering conviction about what you want to create. To do this, you have to shift from a “live for the moment” to a “live for the legacy” mindset.   Your purpose is a dynamic, evolving thing. Most of the time, it is at the intersection of what you are interested in, what you are good at, and what the world needs. Having a clear vision of what you want to create and accomplish is essential to finding your inner power
		- To do your inner work means to evaluate why something triggered you, why something is upsetting you, what your life is trying to show you, and the ways you could grow from these experiences. Truly powerful people absorb what has happened to them and sort of metabolize it. They use it as an opportunity to learn, to develop themselves
		- Validating someone’s feelings doesn’t mean you agree with them. It doesn’t mean you concede that they are correct. It doesn’t mean that those feelings are the healthiest; it doesn’t mean they are informed by logic. Validating feelings does not mean you make them more true; it means you remind someone that it is human to feel things they don’t always understand.
		- When we let ourselves have it—the feeling, that is— something incredible happens. We no longer have to take it out on other people, because we are no longer relying on their validation to get us through it.   We can be aggrieved and pissed and mad and do our own processing without hurting anyone else.
		- When we cannot validate our own feelings, we go on a never-ending quest to try to force others to do it for us, but it never works. We never really get what we need.
		- When you learned of their death, you were undoubtedly sad. But you didn’t attend their funeral, cry for an hour, and then carry on with your life as though nothing happened.    Instead, you probably experienced a bout of sadness then, and then maybe the next day, and then maybe a week later. The waves of grief came and went in varying intensity. When  you  didn’t  resist  them, you  cried  and  felt  sad, or maybe took a nap, a hot bath, or a day off from work.   And then, without much effort from you, the feeling passed, and you felt better.
		- It can be as simple as allowing ourselves to cry before we fall asleep. We often think of that as a sign of weakness, when really, the ability to cry freely is a huge signal of mental and emotional strength. It’s  when  we  can’t  cry  about  what’s  truly  broken  in  our lives that we have a big problem.
		- But if you start with reminding them that anyone in their situation would probably feel similar to how they do right now, and that it is very possible that they can have strong, overwhelming emotions that don’t necessarily mean their lives are completely ruined, and that it is okay to feel devastated when devastating things are before us, we lighten their load
		- Validating other people teaches us how to validate ourselves. And when we learn how to validate ourselves, we become stronger. We see that our emotions are no longer threats, but informants.
		- When you have money problems, you need money principles.   When you have relationship problems, you need relationship principles.   When you have work problems, you need work principles. When you have life problems, you need life principles.
		- A principle is a fundamental truth that you can use to build the foundation of your life. A principle is not an opinion or a belief. A principle is a matter of cause and effect.   Principles can be personal guidelines
		- BEGIN WITH THIS:   • What do you value? What do you genuinely care about?    • What feelings do you want to experience in your life?   • What makes you uneasy or gives you anxiety?
		- Perhaps you value travel and freedom, and so by principle, you are going to start working for yourself and always prioritize being able to work remotely or make your own schedule.
		- When you are clear on what your principles are, you can build your life from a genuine, healthy place. You can start working toward goals that support what you do and do not want to experience, that will make you the calmest and happiest version of yourself.   A good life is built from the inside out and is based on a foundation of self-conduct and prioritization. It’s not as dreamy as a vision board, but it’s a lot more effective.
		- Knowing your purpose also doesn’t necessarily mean your life will henceforth be easy or that you’ll always know what to do. In fact, when you are genuinely on your own path, the future won’t be clear, because if it is, you’re actually following someone else’s blueprint.
		- WHAT, AND WHO, IS WORTH SUFFERING FOR?   Even doing what you love for a living doesn’t mean every day will be easy. Everything comes with its own set of challenges, so the question is really: What are you willing to work for? What are you willing to be uncomfortable for?
		- CLOSE YOUR EYES AND IMAGINE THE BEST VERSION OF YOURSELF. WHAT IS THAT PERSON LIKE?   The best possible version of yourself—the most loving, kind, productive, and self-aware version—is who you really are. Everything else is the byproduct of coping mechanisms you’ve developed and picked up from other people.
		- IF SOCIAL MEDIA DIDN’T EXIST, WHAT WOULD YOU DO WITH YOUR LIFE?   If you knew that you wouldn’t be able to show off, impress, or even share what it was you chose to do with your life, how would it change your ambitions? This differentiates what you are doing because you want to do it from what you are doing for the sake of how it looks to other people.
		- WHAT COMES MOST NATURALLY TO YOU?   What you are most naturally good at is the path you should follow first, because it’s the path on which you will most effortlessly thrive.
		- WHAT WOULD YOUR IDEAL DAILY ROUTINE LOOK LIKE?   Forget about the elevator speech. Forget about having a fancy title or impressing people on LinkedIn. Think about what you want to do day-in and day-out. A lot of people get into jobs they think will make them happy but realize they only liked the idea of them and not the day-to-day reality.
		- WHAT DO YOU WANT YOUR LEGACY TO BE?   Instead of worrying about the virtues on your résumé, focus on the virtues of your eulogy. Who do you want to be remembered as? What do you want to be known for?
		- here is an even more important part of finding your purpose: It is often found through pain. Most people come into awareness of their purpose not because they are effortlessly clear on what their talents are and how they can best utilize them, but because at some point, they find themselves lost, depleted, exhausted, and with their backs against the wall.
		- At the end of your life, your purpose will be defined not by how you struggled, what circumstances you were in, or what you were supposed to do, but how you responded in the face of adversity, who you were to the people in your life, and what you did each day that slowly, in its own unique way, changed the course of humanity.
		- controlling your emotions involves becoming more conscious of how you feel. You are aware that you are angry, sad, or aggrieved, but you are choosing what you do about it. It is not really that you are controlling your emotions, but your behavior.
		- Inner peace is the state of being connected to the deep internal knowing that everything is okay and always will be
		- Albert Camus once said: “In the midst of winter, I found there was, within me, an invincible summer.”   That sums up the entirety of what inner peace really is: the understanding that no matter what is happening around you, there is a place of total knowing and calmness within you.
		- Think about it this way: What do you typically imagine will bring you happiness? Money, a relationship, a promotion? What happens when you achieve those things?
		- When we grow up, we adapt to our environments. We adopt the beliefs and ideas of those around us. We alter our personalities so that we become safer; we believe the world can’t hurt us. When we are children, we are more vulnerable than ever, and it’s during this time that we pick up what can easily become lifelong coping mechanisms.
		- When we begin to trust our thoughts, we let them inform our feelings.
		- Of course, that doesn’t mean that our thoughts are useless. It just means that they are not always reflective of reality and should be used as more of suggestions than anything else.
		- Another really amazing way to find your inner peace is to constantly remind yourself that your worries are a fabrication of your mind’s need to identify potential threats for survival, and true happiness is being here in the moment.
		- The most challenging part of all of this is arriving at a place where you can discern between which feelings are instinctive and informative and which are rooted in fear and ego.
		- Your feelings aren’t here to tell you what’s going to happen. They’re only here to inform you of where you are energetically and mentally and how you should respond to what happens around you
		- Mentally strong people are planners.   They think ahead. They prepare. They do what’s best for the long-term outcome.   You might think that this disconnects them from the moment, but the opposite is true. Worrying disconnects you from the moment. Overthinking disconnects you from the moment.
		- We become convinced that everyone around us is disproportionately concerned with the minutiae of our lives.
		- Nobody is thinking about you in the way that you think they are thinking about you. They are mostly thinking of themselves. When you feel self-conscious for going grocery shopping in your sweatpants, please know that nobody cares and nobody is looking. When you feel anxious about your accomplishments or lack thereof, please know that for the most part, nobody cares and nobody is looking. This is true of absolutely everything in life.   Nobody is evaluating you the way you are evaluating you. They mostly take you at face value.
		- The main reason that people sustain anxiety is due to long-term thinking in either/ors, otherwise known as false dichotomies.   This is a cognitive distortion in which you eschew an entire field of possibilities in favor of one or two polarized outcomes, neither of which are likely or reasonable.
		- Stop trying to predict what you can’t know, and start putting your energy toward building what you can.
		- There are some things in life that are outside of your control. If you focus on them, you will miss something really important: the majority of your life is the direct result of your actions, behaviors, and choices.
		- Reflect on what went wrong, learn from what went wrong, and figure out how you’re either going to make up for it or change the outcome in the future.   Then let it go.
		- Discomfort is not trying to punish you! It is just trying to show you where you are capable of more, deserving of better, able to change, or meant for greater than you have right now. In almost every case, it is simply informing you that there is more out there for you, and it is pushing you to go pursue it.
		- Happiness is your natural state. That means you will return to it on your own if you allow the other feelings you want to experience to come up, be felt, be processed, and not resisted
		- The only place to find happiness is in the present because that’s the only place it truly exists. Trying to find happiness by focusing on what could or might happen in the future is actually a process of disassociation. Practice arriving into today by focusing on taking life one day at a time and doing the most with what you have in front of you currently.
		- In order to find greater happiness, you need to see yourself as an equal to those around you. When you view yourself in a position to constantly learn from all those you know, you are no longer compensating for fearing you are “beneath” them.
		- We become most like the people we spend time with, and our happiness is directly correlated with not the quantity of relationships we have, but the quality of each of them; being lonely is as much of a risk to your health as smoking.24
		- Happiness is not contingent upon you forcing relationships you don’t want to be in. It is, however, contingent upon you building and fostering relationships with people you really like and who add value to your life.
		- When you approach life as though you already know all there is to know, you are actually closing yourself off to potentially having new and better experiences
		- Your pain teaches you what does not feel good and what you should not continue to do. Your joy teaches you what is in alignment. Everything can be your teacher, and the more you allow your life experiences to shift and change you, the better you (and they) will become.
		- When you give your energy to certain thoughts, they gain life.
		- Happiness is refusing to fill your schedule to the absolute brim so you can wring the most you possibly can out of every second of your life. It is also taking time to embrace the mundanity of everyday moments. It’s sitting back and reading a book, talking over dinner with someone you love, or just enjoying the small things each day. Taking this time won’t happen on its own; you have to plan for it.
		- When you look back on your life, you won’t remember the hardships. You’ll see them then as pivot points, growth opportunities, the days of awakening right before everything changed
	- **Insights**
		- Insert key insights