Title:: Welcome Home
Author:: Najwa Zebian
Date:: [[Feb 23rd, 2023]]
Tags:: #self-discovery, #Book-Reviews

	- **Quotes**
		- Your home belongs nowhere outside of you. Your home is within you. You are the architect. You are the builder.
		- The mistake most of us make is that we build our homes in other people in the hope that they will deem us worthy of being welcomed inside. We feel so abandoned and empty when people leave, because we’ve invested so much of ourselves in them
		- How do you continue to fight when there’s no one but you on the battleground?
		- When we see others experiencing sorrow, we want to protect them. We want to help them with the pain. We want them to know that they aren’t alone.
		- You can heal a recent wound, but if you haven’t come to terms with your past wounds, you can be sure those wounds will turn into scars that will continue to define you.
		- That was the love. The warmth. The connection. The feeling of relevance, worth, and importance….Like I actually belonged somewhere.
		- Home is not a physical place. It is the place where your soul feels it belongs, where you can unapologetically be yourself, where you are loved for your authentic self. Home is the place where you don’t have to work hard just to be loved.
		- Little did I know that by helping them heal, I was healing my eight-year-old self who was told to stay behind
		- Some moments we live now are connected to moments ten or twenty years from now. And we don’t see the connection until that future moment happens.
		- The biggest mistake we make is that we build our homes in other people. We build those homes and we decorate them with the love and care and respect that makes us feel safe at the end of the day. We invest in other people, and we evaluate our self-worth based on how much those homes welcome us. But what many don’t realize is that when you build your home in other people, you give them the power to make you homeless. When those people walk away, those homes walk away with them, and all of a sudden, we feel empty because everything that we had within us, we put into them. We trusted someone else with pieces of us. The emptiness we feel doesn’t mean we have nothing to give, or that we have nothing within us. It’s just that we built our home in the wrong place.
		- So let’s change the question from “Why can’t I have that” to “Why don’t I have that?” Boom. Now that the question does not imply impossibility, but rather pushes for discovery and understanding, I can actually search for answers.
		- The goal of constructing the road that leads to your home within is not to avoid the roadblocks in your way. Rather, it is to break them down and use them as road bricks you can interlock to construct the road.
		- Ask yourself What does that story make me believe about myself?
		- Using the diagram on this page, change your Why can’t I have that? story to a Why don’t I have that? story
		- I was still waiting for someone to give me love. Someone to give me worth. Someone to give me value. I was giving more power to my past lived experience and what I thought it proved than I was giving to my current living experience and what I knew about myself in the present.
		- When you don’t know what home looks like, you take whatever you’re offered.  My feeling of homelessness not only made me betray myself while I built homes in others, it also made me betray others by having insincere feelings for them
		- Reflect: Where am I now? I’m guessing you’re in a state of not feeling home.   Reflect: Where do I want to be? I’m guessing you want to build a home within you.   What’s standing in the way of your getting there?   Your Why can’t I have that? story (Tool #1)   Your belief that you can’t have that.     Change your mindset (Tool #2).   Start making the journey home.
		- The first space would be their home and the second space would be their school, with all the different identities they have in each. The third space would be that in-between space where they are able to express the mixture of identities they feel represent them the most.
		- We each have our own third space. It’s the space in which we feel we are our authentic self. It’s the space that contains all our preferences for how we would like to live our life. It’s the ideal space in which we feel fully and wholly represented. It’s…home
		- Identify the two spaces or worlds you feel you are living in. (Note: There could be more than two. If there are, draw additional circles. The goal is not to get stuck on the term third space. It’s your space. Your home.)   Write down all the required identities, rules (spoken or unspoken), beliefs, languages, traditions, standards, and the like, of the spaces you identified in step 1.   In your third space, or your space, write down the identities, rules, beliefs, languages, standards, and the like, that you feel represent your authentic self.
		- I remember feeling stuck. Feeling I’d been sitting with this pain for so long that it had become my comfort zone, my home. Feeling too afraid to venture beyond it. Because, at least, this place was safe. It was predictable. And comfortable.
		- I realized I had wings, when I’d realized my power but was still choosing not to fly. To not be free. That is one of the most defeating forms of self-oppression—to know you have power, but not use it
		- If I make this change:    They will think of me differently. They won’t welcome me anymore. They won’t love me anymore. They won’t respect me anymore. And so on…   This necessitates that question Who are they? Who is your audience? And why are they the most important?
		- One of the things that stops us from taking the journey back to ourselves is our fear of being judged, shamed, or even ostracized from the lives of those around us
		- When you limit your ability to break free because you’re seeking acceptance from those around you, you’re refusing to break down that roadblock and turn it into a road brick. You’re failing to build a home for yourself within yourself
		- People accepting what I had to give was all I needed to keep seeking a connection with them
		- Once you have built a home within yourself, you are unstoppable. Because you are no longer a walking homeless person begging for someone to give you shelter. You are not standing at every intersection and every corner begging for whatever leftovers or pocket change people have to give you.
		- You can’t deprive yourself of the belief that you deserve that until you look like, feel like, and have the things and people in your life that you believe will make you have that.
		- These mountains that you are carrying, You were only supposed to climb
		- The mere visualization of moving that heavy weight from being above you to being below you gives you power. Through the road to your home, the building of the foundation and the rooms, and your entry into each room, you will discover you are carrying mountains of pain, trauma, and rejection; of feeling not good enough, like you feel too much, like you do too little or too much. Whatever it is, remember this: Even though it might feel like these mountains are crushing you and that you are powerless in comparison to them, you are the one with power. You are the one who gets to say I am putting this mountain beneath my feet and rising above
		- The foundation is built from two things: self-acceptance (you must feel worthy of the foundation) and self-awareness (knowing who you are)
		- What makes a home a home? Is it how big it is? How many rooms it has? How many floors it has? Is it where it’s located? Is it how expensive it is?
		- Do you have a foundation for your own home? Remember praxis. Do you apply what you know about yourself and your worth to your everyday life?
		- You are a master at looking at yourself as an exception to the rules you would apply to everyone else out there.  How much easier would your life be if you took your own advice, right? So, what’s the disconnect here?
		- It puts your own worth inside of you, not inside of someone else.   It makes you believe you are worthy of turning your knowledge about your worth into practice
		- But we all know that the purpose of a foundation is to make sure the house can last forever
		- So what keeps you together? If the purpose of a foundation is to last, protect, and endure, then the foundation of the home you build within yourself should be made of two things: self-acceptance and self-awareness
		- Self-acceptance at its core means knowing yourself as you are, with all your weaknesses and strengths, with all that makes you who you are. Whether you look at those things as flaws or as superpowers is in your own hands. To accept yourself, you must first know yourself
		- This if on its own indicates your denial of your present, which means that you are not in the state of self-acceptance. To accept yourself, you must have no ifs
		- You can have dreams and aspirations but your I will feel better should not depend on those dreams and aspirations. You should feel good as you are.
		- part of self-acceptance is not caring about what the world thinks. But do you see where the flaw in that definition is? It puts the focus on the world—not on you. How could that be self-acceptance
		- As long as your decisions stem from your need, or want, to stand out in the world, you cannot reach self-acceptance. Your decisions must instead stem from your need, and want, to be yourself.
		- Do you live your life in a reactive state to the world around you? Or do you live your life because you are fully convinced of your beliefs?
		- When you don’t spend any time understanding yourself, you will start accepting someone who might not actually be your authentic self. That’s what shallow self-acceptance looks like. You might be accepting a version of yourself that’s just a product of your environment
		- I had the dangerous disease of trying to please everyone. So instead of confronting my fear of speaking up, I convinced myself that this is how I will always be
		- You may think you’ve accepted yourself, but you’ve only accepted the image of yourself dictated by those around you, or the person you were in a specific moment
		- Listen to what your inner voice tells you. This very likely is not your own, at-home voice. It is likely your ego, which is your sense of self that began to form during your earlier experiences in your life. It is also likely the voices of others and what they’ve been telling you about yourself
		- My authentic self is worthy of my own acceptance
		- When you come into this world, you are born into an environment that shapes your beliefs for you. And it shapes your idea of who you should be. Most people live their whole lives working toward what that environment taught them is the way to live, without questioning why. The process of understanding the why is what challenges you to take an inventory of your beliefs and allows you to discard the ones that don’t serve you, or the ones that don’t make sense to you, or simply the ones that you don’t believe in
		- You fit in somewhere. But it’s the same as saying I accept myself without fully knowing yourself.
		- Here are some of the selves you might be currently accepting:   The self your parents raised you to be   The self your spouse or partner loves   The self you believe you should be   The self of the person you’re comparing yourself to   The self of the person you aspire to be   (Insert the self you’re trying to be.)
		- What did I believe being okay, good, and enough meant
		- I understood that my parents believed they were protecting me, but the way it made me feel was isolated and alone. I wanted to go out with my friends, but I couldn’t. I wasn’t the type to do anything behind my parents’ back, so I obeyed while I continued to feel alienated from opportunities for connection outside of a school setting
		- Do you feel scattered? Lost? Unorganized?   If so, why do you think that is?     Are you accepting your shallow self as a way to avoid revealing your deep, authentic self?   Have you brought your authentic self into your awareness?
		- Are you projecting your authentic self (reflecting deep self-acceptance) into the world? Or are you projecting one of the aforementioned selves?   If so, which ones?   Are they clashing? (Are you wearing different masks to conceal your authentic self?)   How is this manifesting in your life (fear, people-pleasing, agitation, and the like)?     Do you know yourself well enough to know what self it is that you are accepting?
		- In this social media–ruled world, it’s hard to define yourself without labels. For the last two or three years, I’ve been defining myself as an author, poet, healer, and teacher. And before that, when people would ask me who I was, I would rush through saying my name to get to my credentials.
		- But that’s how I defined myself. With labels. Who was I without those labels? A nobody, I thought.
		- step 1: Write all the ways in which you’ve been introducing yourself
		- Who am I without this label? How do I feel about myself if I can’t use this label to describe myself? It’s important that you go through them one by one
		- Self-awareness ↔ Self-acceptance → A solid foundation
		- Remember that your own home is the best investment you can make. And though the foundation may take a while to build before you can see the full picture of your home, it’s worth it
		- the one still asking Why can’t I have that? and aching for love from an external source…the one who was settling for scraps of what people gave her because she genuinely believed that she didn’t deserve more. I was still that girl because I wasn’t self-aware, and I was at a shallow level of accepting myself. Without healing that little girl and understanding why she learned to believe that scraps of love is all she would ever get, there was no way I was going to understand why I chased after scraps of what people had to give.
		- if you are at a point in your life where you’re dwelling in your pain more than you are in your willingness to heal, then you have definitely not built the foundation for your home
		- The feeling of home is the feeling of I’m together with myself. This togetherness includes all the elements of your being
		- Your home is a safe and stable place. In a state of homelessness, chaos and confusion will thrive. You’ll look to others for stability, putting yourself at risk of defining yourself and directing the sails of your life according to foundations external to you.
		- If you’ve learned to self-hate, that habit needs to be broken. You can’t hate yourself and love yourself at the same time. You can do them both in one day, but you can’t do them both at the same time
		- Before you can genuinely love yourself, you must believe that you are worthy of love. While constructing the road to your home and building its foundation has brought you the required knowledge and awareness of your worthiness as a whole, the work of self-love now will require a process of rediscovery and unlearning of all that came before in your life. When you believe you are worthy of love, you will start seeing love around you. You will also start to define yourself by the love you have within you, not the love you receive from external sources
		- Self-love means you do not beg anyone to welcome you into their home or to validate your love by giving it a place to stay.
		- To balance acceptance of yourself as an empath while knowing where to draw the line with your emotional investment in others’ emotions, you must first remind yourself that you are worthy of the love you give to others
		- Is this emotion mine to carry?   Am I being asked to carry this emotion?   If yes, do I want to carry this emotion? And do I have the time and energy to do so?   If yes, decide the level of investment that you’ll make.   If no, tell yourself I have the right to decide not to carry the emotion of this person.     If no, leave the person’s emotion outside your bubble
		- Giving is noble. Loving is noble. But not if you aren’t included in that giving and loving. And if you feel you’ve always been this way, remember that self-love is a process of self-discovery
		- If you define your worthiness of love by the worthiness that others see, you will always find a flaw within yourself, when the simple truth might be you’re looking for your worth in the wrong place
		- A secure person is an at-home person; they’re comfortable with connection and don’t base their worthiness on external sources of validation. An anxious person is the complete opposite; they’re in constant need of validation and come from a place of fear of abandonment
		- First, find out your attachment style. Second, work toward being as secure as possible. I recommend that you find out your attachment style by reading Attached, and if you have an insecure attachment style, you should work toward increasing your relationship security
		- Making someone stay is not your responsibility. And it’s definitely not at the expense of your authentic self. Your being your authentic self means you are secure. It means you are not willing to sacrifice your authenticity for someone else’s welcome.
		- Instead of asking yourself What is wrong with me?, ask What did I go through that taught me to be this way?
		- Going to the root of the problem entails you tracing back your Why can’t I have that? story in a way that helps you understand why a certain pattern has persisted in your life. This will allow you to understand yourself instead of judging yourself
		- Think back to an experience in your life where you find yourself regretting the way you reacted or what you accepted.   As an empathetic friend, what would you tell someone who came to you with the exact same story?   Say that to your younger self
		- In this Self-Love room, even the people who love you dearly are not allowed to enter. There’s another room for them, Compassion.  Love doesn’t dismantle your authentic self. Love doesn’t belittle your authentic self. Love doesn’t require you to change your authentic self. Love is not in words. Love is in action.
		- If their love is the only source of love you see, you won’t see the love that might be coming to you from family, friends, colleagues, and even potential love interests. Because you’re not looking for that love. You’re not seeing it as a source of love. So, indirectly, you are blinding yourself to the love around you
		- You might believe you’re not worthy of love, and you’ve supported that belief with evidence from your past, plus evidence from your current situation. If that’s the case, your mind is going to search for every piece of evidence that further proves the story you believe about yourself, or what you make something that happened mean about you
		- Whatever your brain is looking for, your eyes will see. If you are looking for the positive, you’ll see it. And if you’re looking for the negative, you’ll see it. It’s a matter of what you choose to see
		- Instead of noticing the people who don’t smile at you, you will notice the ones who do. Instead of noticing the people who don’t say hello back, you will notice the ones who do
		- it is not the love of others that forms the basis of or nourishes your self-love. It is your ability to see it, accept it, and truly feel it that shows how in self-love you are.
		- Boundaries are not about what you are protecting yourself from. They are about what you are protecting within yourself. Because you value what’s within
		- Boundaries reflect how much you value yourself and what you have within. Boundaries protect your heart. Your home. And that’s why your boundaries aren’t based on being in defense mode, but rather being in a self-loving, self-valuing mode. In an at-home mode
		- It begins with Why am I hurting? What can I do about it?
		- I see you. I accept that I am thinking and feeling you. And I understand that you are coming from my mind. But you are not who I am. You are not welcome as a permanent resident in my home. You are here because my mind is thinking you, because my heart is feeling you, but you are not me. And I choose not to follow you.
		- When pain knocks on your door, welcome it. Let it in. Sit with it. Have tea with it. Understand it. Then let it leave.
		- The harder it knocks (which means you are ignoring it), the louder it becomes. Eventually, it’s so loud you can’t ignore it, or you get used to a life with that much noise in the background without knowing how much more serene your life would be without it. So the mere act of welcoming it in gives you the power to decide what to do with it
		- Don’t be ruled by where they take you or who they make you believe you are. That is all part of self-love
		- I am the only person in charge of loving myself.   I will see evidence of love throughout my day.   I am my number one priority. I deserve my own love.   Loving myself means being at home with myself.   My whole power is inside of me.   Today I will answer my own call for love.   I understand that I might have moments of falling back into old habits rooted in self-hate or unworthiness, but I promise myself to practice self-love any moment I become aware of my own negative self-talk.
		- Is the feeling I’m feeling or the thought I’m thinking coming from a place of self-love?
		- If you were to build a home for yourself within yourself, you would be giving yourself the safety you need, the love you need, so when you look at others, you don’t feel in need of them welcoming you into their homes
		- recognize. Be aware of when you are waiting. It feels like a state of restlessness. Or a state of complete numbness. A sad kind of numbness or a completely detached from reality kind of numbness. It’s easier to recognize this state of waiting when you look at your day-to-day life over time and look for patterns in how you spend your time.   understand. Understand what you are waiting for.   reflect. Are you giving up your own power? If so, what/who are you giving your power to?   reclaim. Take back your power from the “what if” and give it to the “what is.”
		- What if your intention of cooking the meal was simply to cook the meal to your best ability? Would you feel that it’s worthless simply because someone, whoever that person is, didn’t eat it? Probably not.
		- once we stop evaluating the worth of our love by who receives it, or whether it’s received at all, or the type of reaction we get as a result of giving it, that’s when we can see the worth of our love on our own. In our own home
		- Before you give love to someone in any form, ask yourself, Is my intention to truly love this person? Or is it to receive validation that my love is worth it?
		- If someone chooses to take advantage of your vulnerability and not honor the promise that they made to keep a safe space for your vulnerability, that’s on them. It’s not on you. And it doesn’t mean you are powerless. Your power is like a well that never runs out of water. People may drink from it. People may take way too much at a time. But you are the source of that power.
		- What is that validation really going to do? What is it going to tell me about myself? What is it going to REALLY change for me?  Is it going to tell me that I am worthy? Is it going to tell me that I am okay? Is it going to tell me that it was okay for me to vulnerable? Do I really need that validation from an external source?
		- When you don’t see the value or the beauty of your own home, collectively made by the elements in it, why would you ever want to build it? Why would you ever want to live in it?
		- when the focus is on the other, the power is with the other. Loving yourself is about your self. Remember, the state of being at home with yourself means that wherever you go and whoever you’re surrounded by, you are at home. Because you are in control of yourself. Because you are in an authentic state of self-acceptance and self-validation. Your being, your at-homeness is not affected by the acceptance or rejection of the outer world,
		- Every time you ask yourself Why is this person not valuing me? turn the question to yourself and ask Why am I betraying myself, my home, by giving someone else so much power over my own worth, over my own feeling of home? What do I need to give myself right now? And give it to yourself.
		- I am the source of my love. I am the one in charge of fulfilling my own needs and wants. I am the one in charge of healing what my childhood taught me about myself and my worthiness of love. It is my responsibility to not shrink or break myself into pieces so that others can welcome me into their homes. It is my responsibility to build a home within myself and welcome myself as I am. At once whole, healing, and a work in progress. I may not feel whole right now, but I fully understand that my authentic self deserves to be loved. And the first one to love me is me. When I do that, no one can make me feel less worthy by withholding love. If I am not welcomed into other people’s homes, I will not make that mean anything about me. I will not take it personally. Because I understand that there is no way for me to feel homeless as long as I have a home within myself for myself. I may not have completed building my own home yet, but I will not beg anyone to welcome me into their home in the meantime. My own home is the one worthy of all my love and energy. And until that home is complete, I will not use others to make me feel home. All that I am willing to give someone just so they can love me in return I will direct toward building my own home. I will do the work it takes to go back to the beginning of my pain, to my Why can’t I have that? story and heal all the lies it told me about myself.  I love myself. Sign here:
		- Forgiveness is about you. Forgiveness is about letting go. Forgiving yourself allows you to let go of the person you thought you needed to be. Forgiving others allows you to accept what happened and let go of needing to change it.
		- As you enter the Forgiveness room, you are aiming to let go of the pain. You are aiming to accept, not reverse, what happened. You are aiming to rise above the pain by walking through it.
		- Do not seek a cure from the person who caused you pain. Do not wait for their apology to give yourself permission to feel the pain.
		- Remind yourself that you are your number one priority. Remind yourself that what you look for is what you will see
		- Someone can’t be the pain and the cure at the same time. They can be the instigator of the pain, but they cannot be the healer of it. You have to be
		- When you forgive them, you are saying What you did to me happened. It was not okay. Putting this behind me doesn’t mean that I am minimizing it. It means that it no longer has power over me
		- What/who do I need to forgive?   Am I ready to forgive?   Have I felt the pain yet?   Have I understood what it’s trying to teach me? (If not, make a visit to the Surrender room.)
		- When pain knocks on your door:  Let it in. If you don’t, it will knock harder and harder. Its voice will become louder and louder. So let it in. Spend some time with it. Understand it. Then walk it to the door and tell it to leave  because it’s time for you to welcome happiness.
		- having something to forgive does not make you less than others. It doesn’t mean you are weak. Just because you can’t let it go doesn’t mean something is wrong with you.
		- Have you stopped opening up to others about how much you’re struggling with letting go of a person, event, or pain? Maybe you’re worried you’ve become a broken record. A burden. You’re sick of your own self. And so you go back to hiding your pain, just as you did before you finally opened up about it.
		- Forgiving myself meant that I understood myself. It meant that I looked at my younger self, who’d never learned that saying no was okay. It meant going back to my younger self and telling her:  Forgive me for blaming you for what you didn’t know. Forgive me for blaming you for what they chose to do.  In the process of forgiving myself, I reflected on the conditioning of my younger self
		- Do not focus your healing on making sense of why someone would want to cause you pain. You will never know their true intentions or whether they actually intended to hurt you or not. It’s better to aim to accept instead of to decode, dissect, or justify what happened
		- Alongside feeling the pain, there has to be acceptance of it. Acceptance of how it all happened. Acceptance of what you did. Acceptance of what they did. There has to be acceptance of the fact that you’ll never again be the person you were before it happened
		- We get so focused on regaining what we lost because, to us, doing so is an indication we’re on the right path. We get so focused on becoming the person we were before, but that’s like trying to fit into a shell you’ve outgrown
		- You broke. You were beautiful before the break. You were beautiful as you were breaking. You are beautiful as you are reconstructing, not unbreaking, yourself. And, oh, how beautiful you will be once you’ve stitched the broken pieces of yourself with the needle of self-love and the golden thread of home.
		- I was broken and looking to unbreak. But what I really needed to do was reconstruct. Because unbreaking meant wishing the pain away. And that’s impossible. Reconstruction is an aware act.
		- The one who broke you cannot heal you.  You must let go of the idea that you can heal only if the person who hurt you apologizes or regrets their actions
		- The “I” statement has three elements:  I felt/feel ________ (insert emotion) when ________ (recount the event that happened) because ________ (insert what it made you think of)
		- The goal of using an “I” statement is to steer away from “you” statements. “You” statements imply a state of homelessness, because you are trying to find the answer somewhere outside of yourself. The purpose of using “I” statements is to separate your healing from the person who caused you pain in any way. It’s to drive you back to yourself. To your home.
		- Now I would introduce myself as someone who’s survived, who’s rebuilt herself, who’s reconstructed herself. I introduce myself as someone who’s an active participant in her own life, not someone who had something done to her. Not someone who is reacting, but someone who is being. It’s hard for us to define ourselves without our pain, because all of a sudden we have to face the truth about ourselves. Most of us don’t even know who we are
		- living in pain is a lot less painful than living unanchored to something. To someone. To a memory. To a moment.
		- When we don’t know who we are, we feel like we have no purpose. So we walk and live aimlessly, not feeling any sense of drive. Many of us would rather not live in that state of not knowing, so we go to what we know. Pain
		- Letting go is seeing and accepting yourself as you are, without the pain. Without the story. Without the labels. Without the identity you’ve created for yourself based on the pain or the story. Accepting that you are not what happened to you. And that you are not the result of it. Instead, you are who you are, with or without it.
		- step 1: Sit in silence. step 2: Close your eyes or focus on one object. step 3: Imagine a person who hurt you. Think of all the power you’re giving them, as represented by the cords that tie you (the marionette) to them. Each cord represents something you can’t let go of when it comes to that pain or that person. step 4: Imagine picking up a pair of scissors. The scissors come directly from the foundation of your home. One blade is self-acceptance and one blade is self-awareness. You take the scissors to each cord separately and say I accept you and I release you. You have no power over me. step 5: Every time you cut a cord, imagine its power flowing back into you. Into your heart. Into your home.
		- To become who I was meant to become, I needed to stop trying to be who I had been
		- I needed to stop wishing away the pain. I needed to stop waiting for an apology. I needed to stop waiting for an acknowledgment of the pain. I needed to stop feeling so small next to those in positions of power. Most of all, I needed to stop wishing myself away by feeling ashamed of wanting to feel home
		- I will never judge a person by what they say they believe, only by their actions, by their hearts, and by their conscience. By the good they bring to this world.
		- With time, I realized that being compassionate with others does not require you to minimize your own problems
		- Allowing people into your life doesn’t take away from your at-homeness. But this doesn’t mean you welcome anyone and everyone. It’s essential to be selective with the visitors who knock on your door
		- Remember that you are the owner of this home. You are the host. Be compassionate with yourself. Put yourself in your own shoes. Grow the desire to help yourself
		- The people you welcome into your home, who you allow to sit at your table, are those who will listen without judgment, without the immediate need to respond, criticize, or analyze
		- The people you can trust with parts of your story are those who’ve earned your trust.
		- Welcome those who won’t sit there and compare their problems to yours. Those who will give you advice when you ask for it. Those who will amplify your voice when it feels so faint. Those who will remind you of your value when you forget it.
		- The friends who fell out of my life were the ones who listened to my pain and agony with judgment rather than empathy, with a desire to feel better about themselves by belittling me. Those are people I don’t speak to anymore. I don’t invite them into my home anymore. It doesn’t mean that they are bad people—they’re just not people who’ve earned their welcome into my home
		- Sometimes people walk in wearing a cloak of compassion that you soon realize is not real. When this happens, remember you’re the owner of your home. You may escort them out the door just as you escorted them in.
		- I was the type who always believed people can change. That everyone deserved a second, third, tenth chance if they really wanted to change. And it took me years to understand that that “type” stemmed from my empathy. And nothing was wrong with that. But I always ended up resenting those who hurt me, even though I had every opportunity to say no, to end my relationship or communication with them, or to stop interacting with them at all
		- People shouldn’t feel so comfortable taking you for granted. They shouldn’t believe you won’t take away the privilege of being welcomed into your life
		- You get to decide who to allow in, who to keep in, and who to ask to leave. You get to decide how frequently to invite someone or whether not to invite them anymore.  Also remember this: It’s not only people that will visit your home. Their opinions are visitors, too.
		- Take stock of the thoughts and opinions on your guest list. It’s a powerful way of thinking about other people’s opinions, isn’t it? And it’s not just specific people’s opinions of you that affect your life. Societal pressures, religious standards, and cultural boundaries also affect you
		- This is what I accept, and this is what I don’t accept
		- You don’t build a boundary in the face of someone else, you build a boundary around yourself—one that honors the value you know you have within you. Putting up walls in reaction to what someone says or does is operating from a place of fear. A boundary, on the other hand, is about you honoring and valuing what you have inside your home
		- Imagine having jewels and diamonds inside your home. It’s not a boundary to say I want to protect these from people stealing them. Setting a boundary is saying These are valuable, and if someone tries to wear them without my permission, I will not accept that
		- If by expressing your boundary to someone, you are expecting that their behavior will change, that is not a boundary. A boundary is free of the expectation that it will change a person’s behavior. That’s a choice they have to make
		- Instead of asking Why are they continuing to hurt me when I’ve already expressed that what they’re doing hurts me?, start asking Do I accept this in my life? I do not accept disrespect. I do not accept inconsistency in communication. I do not accept someone treating me in a way that makes me see their clear lack of respect for me as a human
		- When you take ownership over what you do, how you feel, and how you think, that’s when you begin to change. That’s when you dismantle the power of any person external to you over you
		- step 1: Learn about yourself. Know your value. The foundation of your home and the Self-Love room will help with this immensely. Boundaries are a reflection of the value you see in yourself. step 2: Set boundaries using “I” statements. Even though your boundaries are based on you, they will look and sound different in different contexts—for example, with friends, family, your religious or cultural community, co-workers, strangers, and so on. The bottom line is, you reserve the right to enforce a strong protective fence around your home. You reserve the right to have a lock on your front door. You reserve the right to remove anyone who breaks in through the window or walks in without knocking.
		- I will end the conversation with someone who constantly interrupts me.   I will say no when I’m uncomfortable.   I will leave the room when X yells at me.   I will limit the time and energy I spend on those who try to shame me through religion.   I will not tolerate anyone’s behavior or words just because I’m afraid of hurting their feelings if I ask them to stop.   I will not do or say anything that diminishes my self-respect just to make someone else feel better about themselves.
		- Reinforce your boundaries. Express your boundaries when you need to. Again, some people will adapt to your boundaries through common sense and through sensing your level of comfort. But some people need to have those boundaries explicitly made clear.
		- Stick to your word. Not sticking to your word would be like adjusting the fence you’ve built around your home based on how high or low the person is willing jump
		- If you believe you deserve less, you won’t know how to set a boundary. You won’t know what not to accept in your life
		- An essential part of being home is welcoming those who respect your boundaries without making your boundaries about them, but about you. People in your home have the access and ability to violate your boundaries, but sometimes they choose not to out of genuine respect for you
		- You are not a bad person for not accepting someone taking advantage of you or your time. You must stand up for yourself.
		- Even though it’s crucial for you to be aware of the emotions that visit you, it’s also necessary for you to not give them a permanent spot inside your home.
		- The goal is to get to a point where you can say to pain I welcome you. I hear what you’re telling me about myself. I acknowledge where it’s coming from. I know that nothing is wrong with me. I have made mistakes but that doesn’t mean something is fundamentally wrong with me. Now you can leave.
		- You have to make space inside yourself for new emotions to come in. How about we replace shame with self-love? And guilt with self-forgiveness? And not feeling good enough with feeling content with who we are?
		- When you don’t know what you deserve, you’re more likely to welcome anyone who knocks on your door, because you equate someone knocking on your door with your door’s worthiness of being knocked on.
		- I realized I felt bad because I wasn’t willing to receive someone else’s expression of love for me. Because I didn’t truly believe that I deserved it.
		- Sometimes, people just want to give us love, time, attention, and affection because they genuinely see us for who we are. And they’re willing to give all that to us compassionately. And it’s our own rejection of ourselves and what we deserve that makes us believe that what they’re giving us is too much.
		- It’s the bare minimum that you deserve from someone you’re welcoming into your home.
		- I realized that I’d focused too much on all the people who weren’t there for me during my hard times—those who I trusted who judged me instead of showing me their compassion when I needed it most.
		- Asking yourself if someone is entering your home with compassion before you allow them in will save you so much heartache.
		- There are layers around the core of who you really are that stop you from seeing yourself clearly. Those layers obscure your authentic self. They include who you think you should be and who you think you shouldn’t be. And what stands in the way of who you really are and who you think you should be is your own fear that you aren’t good enough
		- sometimes, after you embody that image of who you should be, you feel a sense of responsibility to keep up with it, to keep performing it perfectly
		- When you work so hard to conform to outside expectations, you abandon yourself. You abandon who you really are.  So when you look at yourself in the mirror, literally or metaphorically, your focus is probably on the blur. All you can see is who you should be, what more you need to do to be welcomed. You speak to yourself with the words others have said to you. And all those things further cloud your vision and stop you from truly seeing yourself
		- On a whiteboard or paper, write down exactly what your life looks like now (take an inventory of your life).   Ask yourself: Does this canvas actually reflect me?   Ask yourself: If I had a choice, is this what I would choose?   Put a check mark where you say yes and an X where you say no.     Start a new board or piece of paper. Imagine the canvas of your life blank.   If this canvas actually reflected you and all your choices, what would it look like?   Ask yourself: What changes do I need to make to go from my current life to the life I choose?
		- I learned it’s not my responsibility to be the torchbearer for my culture and religion. I learned I can live with my reputation being ruined. Because from that ruin, I discovered that my worth is not built on or broken down by ideals placed by society, culture, or religion. My worth is built on me. It’s built within me.
		- What would your life look like if you lived it as you wanted to, not as you were convinced you needed to live it?
		- It could very well be that something good is coming your way, but you don’t feel good about it, because it’s unfamiliar.
		- When you choose denial and confusion, what does that indicate? You probably guessed it…You’re searching for home, for clarity, inside of someone else. On a foundation other than your own.
		- You need to stop seeing others as you wanted them to be, or as you thought they were. You need to see them as they actually are.
		- You can’t keep looking back to the version you saw before the events that caused you to see someone’s true self
		- you need to take a step back, distance yourself from the situation, and see the bigger picture. If you get too close to the mirror, you get so focused on details that minor things start to exaggerate themselves in your eyes
		- Sometimes people will do things that hurt you without thinking of the kind of pain that they’re causing you. And it doesn’t necessarily make them bad people. That’s not up to you to decide. The truth is, getting stuck in being angry or upset with someone over them hurting you doesn’t bring you any peace at all. It’s only going to bring you more pain.
		- What you need to focus on is that the person who hurt you doesn’t deserve your time or your energy more than you do. That person might not even deserve it at all.
	- **Insights**
		- Insert key insights
-
-