- **21:49** [[quick capture]]:  [Miro | Behaviour Change techniques](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP-20v6k=/)
- [[reflection]]
	- What, and who, is worth suffering for?
	- What would you stand for if you knew that nobody would judge you?
	- What would you do if you knew that nobody would judge you?
	- Based on your daily routines, where will you be in five years? Ten? Twenty?
	- Whom do you admire most, and why?
	- What do you not want anybody else to know about you?
	- What are a few things you thought you would never get over while you were going through them? Why did they seem so insurmountable? How did you?
	- What are your greatest accomplishments so far?
	- What would be too good to believe if someone were to sit down and tell you what's coming next in your life?
	- Who from your past are you still trying to earn the acceptance of?
	- If you didn't have to work anymore, what would you do with your days?
	- What are the five most common things in your daily routine aside from the basics such as eating and sleeping?
	- What do you wish those five most common things were instead?
	- If you really believed you didn't have control over something, you'd accept it as a matter of fact. What do you struggle to accept that you have "no control" over? What part of you makes you think or hope otherwise?”
	- If you were to walk through your home and put your hand on every single thing you own, how many of them would make you sincerely feel happy or at peace? Why do you keep the rest?
	- What bothers you most about other people? What do you love most in other people? What bothers you most about yourself? What do you love most about yourself? (Dig until you see the correlation.)
-