- [[quick capture]]
	- [[The Mountain is You by Brianna West]]
		- “At the core of the things we most fear is a message that we are trying to send ourselves about what we really care about. If we can identify what we want to protect, we can find healthier and more secure ways to do it.”
		- “Instead of wasting all of your energy trying to control some worst-case scenario, consider what the message of the fear may be and what it is telling you that you need in your life.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Pushing people away.
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO
		  KNOW: You want people to love and accept you so much that the stress of it all makes you isolate yourself from the pain, effectively creating the reality you’re trying to avoid. Alternatively, needing solitude too often usually means there is a discrepancy between who you pretend to be and who you actually are. When you show up to your life more authentically, it becomes easier to have people around you, as it requires less effort.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Automatically believing what you think and feel is true. 
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO
		  KNOW: You want to worry because it feels comfortable, and therefore safer. The more you blindly trust every random thought or feeling that passes through you, the more you are going to be at the whim of what’s happening around you. You must learn to steady yourself in clarity, truth, and groundedness, and to be able to mentally discern between what is helpful and what is not.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Overworking. 
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO
		  KNOW: You do not have to prove your value. You do, however, have to stop running from the discomfort of being alone with your feelings, which is very often the reason that people overwork. There is a difference between being passionately committed to something and feeling obligated to outperform everyone else. One is healthy; the other is not.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Having self-defeating thoughts that hold you back from doing what you want.
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO
		  KNOW: Being mean to yourself first will not make it hurt less if other people judge or reject you, though that is why you are using this defense mechanism. Thinking the worst of yourself is a way of trying to numb yourself to what you really fear, which is that someone else could say those things about you. What you don’t realize is that you’re acting as your own bully and enemy by doing it to yourself. What could someone else’s judgment realistically do to your life? Honestly, it could stop you from pursuing your dreams, ambitions, and personal happiness. And that’s exactly what you’re doing when you stay fixated on those damaging ideas. It’s time to get out of your own way.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Ascribing intent or worrying that things are about you when they aren’t.
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU TO
		  KNOW: You think about yourself too often. Other people’s lives do not revolve around you, nor do their thoughts. They are busy thinking about themselves in the same way that you are thinking about yourself. Remember that patterns in your life are indicative of your own behaviors, but imagining that every time someone cuts you off in traffic is a personal attack, you’re going to severely hold yourself back, because you’ll always be the victim of something.”
		- “THE WAY YOU ARE SELF-SABOTAGING: Mindlessly scrolling through social media as a way to pass the time. 
		  WHAT YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS MIND MIGHT WANT YOU
		  TO KNOW: This is one of the easiest ways to numb yourself, because it is so accessible and addictive. There is a world-altering difference between using social media in a healthy way versus as a coping mechanism. Mostly, it has to do with how you feel after you’re finished. If you don’t put the phone down feeling inspired or relaxed, you’re probably trying to avoid some kind of discomfort within yourself—the very discomfort that just might be telling you that you need to change.”
		- Intuitive thoughts show you how to respond; invasive thoughts demand that you react.
		- “Intuitive thoughts help you in the present. They give you information that you need to make a better-informed decision. Intruding thoughts are often random and have nothing to do with what’s going on in the moment.”
		- “Intuitive thoughts usually come to you once, maybe twice, and they induce a feeling of understanding. Intruding thoughts tend to be persistent and induce a feeling of panic.”
		- “Intuitive thoughts usually come out of nowhere; invasive thoughts are usually triggered by external stimuli.”
		- “Intuitive thoughts help you help others; invasive thoughts tend to create a “me vs. them” mentality”
		- “Intuitive thoughts help you understand what you’re thinking and feeling; invasive thoughts assume what other people are thinking and feeling.”
		- “Intuitive thoughts show you how to respond; invasive thoughts demand that you react.”
		- “Emotional intelligence is the ability to understand, interpret, and respond to your emotions in an enlightened and healthy way.
		- People with high emotional intelligence are often able to better get along with different types of people, feel more contentment and satisfaction in their everyday lives, and consistently take time to process and express their authentic feelings.”
		- “What happens when we start to chase what we really want: We resist doing the work that it takes to actually get it because we are so afraid of not having it, any brush with failure makes us rescind our effort and tense up.
		- When we go so long not having what we really want, we create subconscious associations between having it and “being bad,” because we have judged others for having it.
		- When we get it, we fear losing it so badly that we push it away from ourselves so as to not have to withstand the pain.
		- We are so deeply enmeshed in the mental state of “wanting,” we cannot shift to a state of “having.”
- **19:21** [[read or watch]] :  {{video https://youtube.com/watch?v=nfJTUq8BYAo&feature=share}}
- **19:25** [[read or watch]] :  https://theconceptwardrobe.com/colour-analysis-comprehensive-guides/dark-winter-a-comprehensive-guide
- Thinking about how I should define the success criteria for the QR code scanning
- Hello
- Fun
- Huh well
  
  Try
- Hello
- Hjk
-
	-