- **14:24** [[quick capture]]:  [Campsite — The home for your team’s work in progress](https://www.campsite.design/)**14:24** [[quick capture]]:  [Plaid: Enabling all companies to build fintech solutions](https://plaid.com/)
- [[Interview/Bima]]
	- Experimented in Indonesia and Bangladesh
	- Expanding into India
	- Engineering and PM are in Bangalore
	- Possible travels to Bangalore
	- Cambodia
	- Questions
		- Bla
		- What would you say motivate you?
		- Hiring two designers - one senior, one mid-level
		- 80 people engineers
		- 5 PMs
		- Vipin - Big social angle, meaningful impact
		- Totally up to me to decide what tool I use - Figma
		- Not sure what the design system is - need to clarify with London office.
			- Engineering round
			- Business round
			- Design challenge - no offline assignments, maybe in-person?
			-
	-
		- BIMA Health Wallet
			- Manage their BIMA health subscriptions in terms of payment flexibility and update nominees covered by their subscriptions;
			- Earn and use Health Points;
			- Visualize Health savings;
			- Make cashless payments;
			- Access their medical history and data; and
			- Access subsidies from public-private funding.
		- Breaks down the high barrier to healthcare access. It has provided 25 million people with high-quality primary and secondary healthcare. This investment will further the company's vision of providing 100 million people with healthcare access by 2026.
		- Expertise in standard UX software such as Sketch, OmniGraffle, Axure, InVision, UXPin, Balsamiq, Framer, Adobe Creative Suite and the like is a must.
		- Extensive experience in using UI / UX best practices to design solutions, and a deep understanding of mobile-first and responsive design.