Title:: Stuff
Author:: [[Randy Frost]], [[Gail Steketee]]
Tags:: mental disorder, hoarding

	- **Quotes**
		- Hoarders, he suggested, are remote and suspicious, preferring the company of objects to that of people. Indeed, for some people prone to acute social discomfort, possessions can be stable and comfortable companions
		- It's like this newspaper advertisement is as important to me as a picture of my daughter. Everything seems equally important; it's all homogenized."
		- Irene explained that the towels and blankets were clean and that laying them over dirty objects protected the clean ones on top
		- Most of her reasons had to do with the intention to use the object. Her rationale was that if she put it away in a file or anywhere else, she would lose it and never find it again. The result of all this effort was that the papers in the pile got shuffled and those on the bottom moved to the top, but nothing was actually thrown away or moved to a more suitable location.
		- When she picked up a cap to a pen, she reasoned that the cap could be used as a piece in a board game.  She couldn't throw it out until we had talked through whether this was a reasonable and important purpose for the object.
		- In several recent studies, people with hoarding problems recalled disconnected relationships with their parents, particularly their fathers.
		- "Things were less complex than people, less moody. People either leave or hurt you." Ironically, it was her things that eventually caused her husband to leave.
		- This was the first hint for Irene of problems related to possessions, and it is consistent with research finding symmetry obsessions and arranging compulsions in children who also have hoarding problems. Since symmetry, arranging, and hoarding all have to do with physical objects, the connection may suggest a deeper problem with how people interact with the physical world or separate themselves from it
		- She recalled never taking a number of them out of the package, perhaps foreshadowing her tendency to value mere possession over use of an object
		- She printed everything in very tiny letters, and the formation of the letters had to be perfect. If she did not form a letter just right, she would start over and rewrite the entire page.
		- People draw conclusions about their worth and competence based on their inability to control their living space
		- She had no problem categorizing, cataloging, and organizing library materials, as long as they did not belong to her. If they were hers, she struggled and failed to keep things organized.
		- Deficits in executive functions such as planning, categorization, organization, and attention leave them lost amid a sea of things, unable to figure out what to do next.
		- Most hoarders are capable of discarding things if they can convince themselves that the object will not be wasted, that it will go to a good home, or, as in this case, that the opportunity it presented is no longer available. But the amount of time and effort involved in attaining this certainty makes it impossible to keep up with the volume of stuff entering the home. Eventually, most hoarders give up and simply let the piles accumulate again.
		- Possessions played a role in her identity, leading her to preserve her history in things. She felt responsible for the well-being of objects, and they gave her a sense of comfort and safety.
		- They connected her to something bigger than herself. They gave her an expanded identity, a more meaningful life. It wasn't the objects themselves that she valued, but the connections they symbolized
		- Another way contagion may influence hoarding has to do not with the desire to be connected to someone or something else, but rather with the fear of being disconnected from a part of oneself
		- Jean-Paul Sartre insisted that we learn who we are by observing what we own. He argued that ownership of most tangible objects occurs with their acquisition or creation.
		- Fromm described people with this orientation as withdrawn, compulsive, suspicious, remote from others, orderly, and overly concerned with cleanliness and punctuality.
		- Objects in a hoard may appear to be without value to an observer, but someone with a hoarding problem would hardly describe them as worthless.
		- The first and most frequent was that possessions allow the owner to do or accomplish something. In other words, possessions provide a sense of personal power or efficacy.
		- possessions provide a sense of security, reminiscent of Winnicott's transitional objects.
		  The third major theme identified by Furby was that possessions become part of an individual's sense of self, just as Sartre believed
		- The third major theme identified by Furby was that possessions become part of an individual's sense of self, just as Sartre believed. This kind of attachment can be subtle yet powerful. Objects can increase one's sense of status or power and expand one's potential
		- Most scholars who study collecting seem to agree that a collection must be a set of objects, meaning more than one, and that the items must be related in some way—they must have some kind of cohesive theme. They also must be actively acquired, meaning there must be some kind of passion or fire to seek out and obtain them.
		- The key features that define a collection seem to be that it involves more than one thing, the things have to be related somehow, and the things have to be acquired and organized in a certain way.
		- Likewise, the grieving in some cultures over the possessions of a deceased loved one demonstrates the extent to which a possession can be considered an extension of personal identity.
		- Many collectors think of their collections as a legacy to pass on to their heirs or even the world. Some, especially art collectors and collectors of historical artifacts, donate their collections to museums or create their own museums for posterity. This has led some scholars to suggest that collecting is a way of managing fears about death by creating a form of immortality.
		- Quite a different theory of collecting relates to how people evaluate their self-worth. The compensation theory suggests that people who question their self-worth need evidence to reassure themselves of their value and importance. Physical objects provide clear and tangible verification of mastery over the world.
		- Is such a passion for collecting pathological? It hardly matters how much stuff anyone owns as long as it doesn't interfere with his or her health or happiness or that of others.
		- Many of the people we see experience great distress because of their hoarding. Acquiring and saving things has wrecked them financially and socially, driven their families away, and impaired their ability to carry out basic
		- Many of the people we see experience great distress because of their hoarding. Acquiring and saving things has wrecked them financially and socially, driven their families away, and impaired their ability to carry out basic activities of living.
		- Hoarding is not defined by the number of possessions, but by how the acquisition and management of those possessions affects their owner. When hoarding causes distress or impairs one's ability to perform basic functions, it has crossed the line into pathology.
		- The more space they have available, the more space they fill. Perhaps this is actually the goal—to fill space.
		- We use the "Clutter Image Rating," as we now call it, in most of our ongoing research. It gives us an unambiguous marker of the seriousness of the problem and clarifies the word "clutter" in the world of hoarding.
		- For most people who hoard, the experience of shopping or acquiring is so overwhelmingly rewarding that it erases all thoughts of consequences.
		- It is possible that people who hoard see and appreciate features of objects that others overlook, perhaps because of their emphasis on visual and spatial qualities.
		- Shopping distracted her from family conflict and worries about her debt, and even served as an indirect way of communicating displeasure with her husband for his criticism of her. But perhaps most of all, it offered her a brief respite from her worries and frustrations.
		- As with other of our clients, many things never left the original box or packing material.
		- As we've seen from the cases described here, the act of collecting is a central feature in the lives of many hoarders. Their sense of themselves and their self-worth seem to be tied to their possessions, but not in a simple way.
		- A question rather than a conclusion defines them: "Am I a worthwhile person?" The question provokes them to seek evidence regarding their worth. Our culture provides, and perhaps encourages, several tangible forms of evidence, such as accomplishments or material possessions. When self-worth depends on tangible markers such as these, emotional problems follow.
		- One unexpected finding in this study was that clutter, rather than difficulty discarding or excessive acquisition, was associated with trauma. For some hoarders, such as Irene and Bernadette, clutter helps them feel protected within their homes. In cases where a traumatic experience precedes the onset of hoarding, perhaps the trauma triggers a nesting instinct to protect the person from further harm.
		- Whenever she tried to get rid of something herself, she felt vaguely uneasy and afraid. Understandably, her husband was becoming frustrated, but his criticism of her excess strengthened her conviction that she was bad, inadequate, a failure.
		- On the second measure, recollections of early family life, people with hoarding problems were much less likely to report having been reared in a warm and supportive family than people in either of the other two groups
		- Both the hoarding group and the OCD group experienced more tenuous attachments to people than did the control group
		- Hoarding affords many of its sufferers the illusion of control and replaces fear with a feeling of safety. For those for whom safety and control are a driving force, treatment necessarily requires exploration of a painful history
		- Our goal was to loosen the grip of these beliefs and get her to start thinking from a different perspective
		- During the early stages of Bernadette's treatment, we didn't emphasize getting rid of things. Instead, we focused on changing the way she thought about her possessions. Once she had some success in challenging or testing her thinking, we put more emphasis on discarding
		- Her therapist's role was to keep up her spirits and ask challenging questions, such as "When will you use it?"; "Where will you put it?"; and "Do you have other things like it?" The process was designed to train hoarders how to make decisions about saving and discarding
		- Her therapist was careful not to put any pressure on her to get rid of things. Bernadette made the decisions. If she decided to keep something after reflecting on the therapist's questions, that was considered a successful decision.
		- One of the worst experiences for someone with a hoarding problem occurs when another person or crew arrives to clear out the home, usually at the order of the public health department or a frustrated family member.
		- Although conditions in the home may improve temporarily, the behavior leading to those conditions will not have changed.
		- We all do it—ticket stubs from a favorite concert, pieces of a long-ago wedding cake, a scrap of paper with a child's first drawing. In this respect, what happens in hoarding is not out of the ordinary. The difference for Irene and Debra, as for many hoarders, is that intense emotional meaning is attached to so many of their possessions, even otherwise ordinary things, even trash
		- When the furniture was moved, she didn't fear a negative event; she just felt uncomfortable, as though things were "not just right." Not-just-right experiences, or NJREs as some OCD researchers and patients call them, are relatively common, and not just among people with OCD. Like an itch, the sensation that one's clothes don't fit right, or the experience of seeing a crooked picture on the wall, NJREs violate our expectations for order.
		- Ordering and arranging compulsions often accompany hoarding. More than three-quarters of children with hoarding problems also have problems with ordering and arranging. Like Debra, a number of our clients have reported to us that as children, they carefully arranged objects in their rooms and felt uncomfortable whenever the items were moved.
		- Life is a river of opportunities. If I don't grab everything interesting, I'll lose out. Things will pass me by. The stuff I have is like a river. It flows into my house, and I try to keep it from flowing out. I want to stop it long enough to take advantage of it.  —Irene
		- Beliefs about utility, waste, and responsibility are common among people who hoard. Ownership seems to carry with it the responsibility for making sure things are used to their full potential and not wasted.
		- There is a flip side to the pleasure hoarders derive from acquiring and owning things, but it is not merely the pain of discarding those possessions. Rather, it is the avoidance of that pain, or of any negative emotional experience at all. This is as fundamental to the development and maintenance of hoarding as acquiring things in the first place
		- Saving things allows hoarders to avoid the distress of being without their cherished possessions—and all the significant connotations those possessions have.
		- Avoidance behavior and a process called avoidance conditioning are in part responsible for OCD and most anxiety disorders
		- People in treatment for hoarding commonly show this pattern, and it translates into missed sessions, attempts to postpone or cancel, not being able to work on clearing or sorting, and sometimes dropping out of treatment
		- Avoiding distress is a key feature in the development and maintenance of hoarding. It reinforces the belief that the feelings being avoided are intolerably bad, and at the same time it weakens the person's strength to cope with those feelings. Avoidance is a seductive coping strategy that works temporarily but ultimately undermines progress.
		- The lack of insight in hoarding appears to be narrow, applying only to the clutter and varying by context. When outside their homes, many people who hoard recognize that they have a problem, but when they are at home and looking at objects they should get rid of, they can't see the problem.
		- Our recent research indicates that an absence of warmth, acceptance, and support characterizes the early family life of many hoarders, perhaps leading them to form strong emotional attachments to possessions
		- A curious commonality among people who hoard is how they talk on the telephone: they leave long, rambling, almost incoherent messages filled with irrelevant details.
		- The process of sorting out important from unimportant details is clearly impaired in hoarders, who can't see the forest for the trees
		- In a COH survey, more than 80 percent of the group's approximately fourteen hundred members reported that when they were growing up, they thought their family was the only one that lived amid extreme clutter
		- Conflicting feelings of love and resentment put the children in an impossible position, and understanding a parent's problem does not change the condition of the home
		- Wholesale cleanouts may temporarily resolve the health or safety crisis, but they do little to change the problem behavior or the causes of hoarding, and the problem often resurfaces
		- From a mental health perspective, we strongly recommend that the hoarder be included in the de-cluttering process when the cleanout is legally mandated
		- A hoarder's attachment to his or her things and decisions about acquiring and saving will not change if he or she does not participate in the disposition of the stuff.
		- Most people who hoard are intensely ashamed of their failure to control the clutter and try to hide the conditions of their homes from others
		- Objects carry the burden of responsibilities that include acquisition, use, care, storage, and disposal
		- Possessions play a central role in the lives of materialists. They are a means to self-enhancement, identity, and social standing, and the driving force in daily activities
		- contrast, the typical hoarder will go to great lengths to hide his or her possessions from view. The hoarder's motivation for saving things is to create not a public identity but a private one. Objects become part of who the hoarder is, not the façade he or she displays to the world
		- Hoarding might be a behavior with a social benefit if the collected objects were used and didn't foul living spaces. Unfortunately, simply collecting things others throw out does not save material possessions from the landfill
		- For most of us, a certain degree of disorganization is not harmful and can help us be creative and productive. But at the point where severe disorganization begins to impinge on quality of life, the detriments outweigh the benefits and may qualify as a disorder.
		- Hoarders are gifted with the ability to see the opportunities in so many things. They are equally cursed with the inability to let go of any of these possibilities, thereby ensuring that few of the imagined options can ever be realized.