Title:: Finding Meaning: The Sixth Stage of Grief
Author:: [[David Kessler]] 
Tags::

- **Quotes**
	- What does meaning look like? It can take many shapes, such as finding gratitude for the time they had with loved ones, or finding ways to commemorate and honor loved ones, or realizing the brevity and value of life and making that the springboard into some kind of major shift or change.
	- None of us know how long we have. Five minutes, five years, or fifty years. We don’t have that kind of control, but we do have control over how we choose to spend whatever time remains to us.
	- “I know you’re drowning. You’ll keep sinking for a while, but there will come a point when you’ll hit bottom. Then you’ll have a decision to make. Do you stay there or push off and start to rise again?”
	- You don’t have to experience grief, but you can only avoid it by avoiding love. Love and grief are inextricably intertwined.
	- Love and grief come as a package deal. If you love, you will one day know sorrow.
	- Grief is the experience and natural feelings that come with loss. Some deaths are traumatic when they are accompanied by exposure to the loved one’s physical agony, medical procedures, suddenness
	- Trauma always has grief mixed in, but not all grief is traumatic.
	- Frankl wrote that each of us has the ability to choose how we respond to even the most terrible of circumstances.
	- The grieving mind finds no hope after loss. But when you’re ready to hope again, you will be able to find it. Bad days don’t have to be your eternal destiny. That doesn’t mean your grief will get smaller over time. It means that you must get bigger.
	- Some people will find meaning in belief in afterlife. Others will find meaning in the memories of their loved ones. Still others will find meaning in simply being able to be present for their loved ones’ last hours.
	- The same is true for adults. If they are grieving, they need to feel their grief acknowledged and reflected by others. But in our hyperbusy world, grief has been minimized and sanitized. You get three days off work after a loved one dies and then everyone expects you to carry on like nothing happened. There are fewer and fewer opportunities for those around you to bear witness to your pain, and this can be very isolating.
	- That’s how these communities witness, and mirror, grief. They are showing in a tangible way that someone’s death matters. The loss is made visible.
	- Too often outsiders who may have the best of intentions will suggest to a bereaved person that it’s time to move on, embrace life, and let go of grief. But grief should be a no-judgment zone. Those who understand what you’re going through will never judge you or think your grief is out of proportion or too prolonged. Grief is what’s going on inside of us, while mourning is what we do on the outside. The internal work of grief is a process, a journey. It does not have prescribed dimensions and it does not end on a certain date.
	- Those who are in a dark place aren’t ready to hear about hope, often because they’re at the beginning of the grieving process and their grief is too acute to allow for any other emotions. They just want the darkness of their grief to be seen and acknowledged.
	- If the griever needs to remain in a dark place for a while, then trying to offer some kind of cheer will be very hurtful. We must really see the person we are trying to comfort. Loss can become more meaningful—and more bearable—when reflected, and reflected accurately, in another’s eyes.
	- What we think has nothing at all to do with the feelings of those who are in grief, and they will not be comforted by hearing us criticize their loved ones as not being deserving of their sorrow.
	- Every loss has meaning, and all losses are to be grieved—and witnessed. I have a rule on pet loss. “If the love is real, the grief is real.” The grief that comes with loss is how we experience the depths of our love, and love takes many forms in this life.
	- Life gives us pain. Our job is to experience it when it gets handed to us. Avoidance of loss has a cost. Having our pain seen and seeing the pain in others is a wonderful medicine for both body and soul.
	- Life has peaks and valleys. It’s our responsibility to be present for both.
	- Some grievers don’t talk about their loss, they don’t cry a river of tears. They get back to “normal” as soon as they can. Like Lindy, they appear too strong. Perhaps disconnected. Since they don’t publicly or privately cry or share their feelings with friends and family, they are often misunderstood.
	- We must witness grief as it is. Practical grievers often complain that everyone is trying to change and fix them. They don’t need to be fixed. They need to be seen and respected for their own way of dealing with loss.
	- “The time will come when memory will bring a smile to your lips before it brings a tear to your eyes.” That’s how it goes: pain first, meaning later.
	- Funerals and memorials are important. Something profound happens when others see and hear and acknowledge our grief. Mourning is the outward expression of our grief. Conversely, something goes wrong when it remains unseen.
	- A funeral is the time for people to gather as a family, as a community, to witness grief together. The funeral is the most well-known ritual for death, a ceremony that creates meaning out of our loved one’s experience of life, and our own experience of loss.
	- The funeral ritual is important in witnessing grief because we will grieve alone for the rest of our lives. This is our last formal time to mourn together. One of the most common things we hear at funerals is that the deceased would not want us to grieve for them. I always think if we can’t grieve at the funeral, when can we grieve?
	- We need a sense of community when we are in mourning because we were not meant to be islands of grief. The reality is that we heal as a tribe. There is no greater gift you can give someone in grief than to ask them about their loved one, and then truly listen. When we see our sorrow in the eyes of another, we know our grief has meaning.
	- Did the person have to die? Could the death have been prevented? Could I have prevented it? Could someone else have? How did the dying person experience what was happening? Was there something I should have done to make it easier? Where is the meaning in death and dying?
	- Pain is the pure emotion we feel when someone we love dies. The pain is part of the love. Suffering is the noise our mind makes around that loss, the false stories it tells because it can’t conceive of death as random
	- In a way, meaning both begins and ends with the stories we tell
	- I couldn’t understand why we weren’t talking about my mother. But we never did, so I was left to grieve in isolation. I realize now that my father was not a man who trafficked in the world of feelings. I never heard him talk about his grief or anyone else’s. He was a problem solver who was always trying to figure out how to do the next thing
	- When I retold it through the eyes of my parents and realized how hard her sickness and death must have been for them, and how much they loved me and tried to protect me from being hurt, it became my freedom. I felt a deep gratitude to them.
	- One of the most important lessons I learned in writing my first book, The Needs of the Dying, is that the way we view death reflects how we look at life. If death is simply an enemy that triumphs over us in the end, a horrible trick of nature that defeats us, then our lives are meaningless
	- In our modern society, death is spoken of as a failure, as though it were optional, and if only we fought hard enough against it we could defeat it—despite the fact that our mortality rate is 100 percent
	- Listen to how we speak about death and write about it in obituaries: She succumbed to the illness. He lost the battle to cancer. Or Dad didn’t make it. Apparently, no matter how great our life, we are destined to fail in the end
	- Often, families who receive bad news from the doctor about a loved one’s terminal illness plead, “You can’t let them die. They can’t die.” We have seen that if instead they asked, “What can we do to help him make the most of the time he has left?” they would be asking a question that would lead to a better end of life for their loved one and a better experience of grief for them.
	- Rage, rage against the dying of the light” in his poem, we hear in it a howl of grief at the knowledge that all lives must end. But we can also hear an invitation to witness and celebrate the “light” of every day that dawns for us.
	- We are devastated when our days with someone we love comes to an end. We don’t appreciate those days until it’s too late. But painful as it is, if we can view the approach of death as a reminder to us to value every moment, we can find new sources of meaning.
	- The nurse said, “People change at the end of their lives. We all need a little extra tenderness at the beginning of our lives and at the end.”
	- Everything that lives must die. But while life has to end, love doesn’t. As the sun sets on the final days of someone we love, we may indeed want to “rage against the dying of the light.” But it’s worth reflecting on the fact that although we perceive the sun as setting, that’s only because the earth is rotating, turning away from the sun. Soon it will turn back, and we will begin a journey toward another day. Is that also true for our loved ones?
	- For most of us, the first step in making meaning out of loss is fully experiencing all the stages of grief, which means feeling the depths of pain and taking the time to live there for a while
	- I love the quote, “If I had my life to live over again, I would find you sooner so that I could love you longer.” Whoever wrote it wrote from a place of acceptance, an understanding of the inevitability of death.
	- She looked at me in tears and said, “This pain will never end.” When I hear this from a person in grief, I understand why she is suffering so deeply. “Your pain will not always be like this,” I told her. “It will change.”
	- My loss was heart-wrenching, but I could see that other people’s losses were, too. I began to care about the characters in the stories I was watching, to become interested in what happened to them. I felt love. I felt compassion. I found myself laughing at funny moments. Was that me who just laughed? Is that okay? If crying is a part of life, so is laughter. I began to see my life in a more connected way. I felt myself rising back into life. Connecting with myself was important, and so was reconnecting outward to humanity. “My outer world began to expand. I was intentional about whom I spent my time with, because when I was with them, I was present with my heart and whole being.”
	- That’s what I try to do with those I work with. I want to know, are you still at your loved one’s deathbed? Are you still hearing the bad news? Are you still at the funeral? Where are you and when are you? I want to help grieving people visit the story again, but not get stuck there, perpetually feeling yesterday’s feelings today. In grief, we often entangle the past, present, and future. We need to come into the present moment so we’re getting our meaning from the now, not the then
	- Trauma expert Janina Fisher tells patients, “You won’t feel hope for a long time—hope comes after we begin to feel safer and better.
	- Allowing yourself only to focus on the past, however miserably, can seem easier, more comfortable, than deciding to live fully in a world without your loved one
	- It’s also scary because it requires you to move into the unknown, into a life that is different without that person
	- When we are grieving, we want to stay in harbor. It’s a good place to be for a while. It’s where we refuel, rebuild, repair. But in the same way ships are meant to sail, we are meant to eventually leave our safe harbor, to take the risk of loving again, to find new adventures, to live a life after loss, and maybe even to help another.
	- There’s an unspoken belief that to enjoy life after the death of someone dear to them will mean that they didn’t really love that person.
	- The experience of love that you had can never be destroyed or changed by a new love. That love will exist forever in its own time, in its own way, in your heart. But more love can be available to you if you desire. Your heart can have many loves in its lifetime. A new love can grow out of the same soil without diminishing a past love. You still have a life. It was one you didn’t prepare for and you didn’t want. But this road is still worth traveling. Your story is still in the making, waiting for you to find it.
	- You will always be connected to your son,” I reminded them. “But you don’t have to connect in pain. You can connect in love.”
	- When people grieve a death by suicide, they are inevitably haunted by their failure to have stopped it
	- Death by suicide is not a selfish act or even a choice. It’s a sign of a mind that needs help. It’s a horrific outcome to a tragic situation
	- I gently tell those who are still feeling so much guilt, replaying their if-onlys, “Maybe you could’ve done something in that moment, but if they were intent on ending their lives, if their minds were in that much pain, you have to understand that they would have found another moment when you weren’t there.” They need to stop blaming themselves—and stop blaming the person who died.
	- committed” is usually used in the context of crimes. A broken mind is a tragedy, not a crime. When we say it was “a successful suicide attempt,” that seems to suggest that death by suicide can somehow be considered a success. When we say, “He was a suicide,” we have made that person’s cause of death his identity. I never heard anyone say, “She was a heart attack,” or “He was an end-stage cancer.” Jim is not a suicide. He is Jim who died by suicide.
	- People who lose a loved one to suicide often think that this doesn’t happen in good families, or to good people. They may feel that suicide is a rare and shameful event and try to keep it quiet
	- Since shame is part of the loss, some may invent a false story about the death, saying that their loved one died of a sudden heart attack or a stroke or whatever.
	- Death by suicide is often viewed as meaningless, but it need not be. People grieving such a death may find that meaning in their own time.
	- I often ask those in grief if they could have one last communication with their loved ones, what would they say? This can be especially emotional for someone who is addressing a loved one who died by suicide, because grief often gets mixed up with guilt and anger.
	- Most of us find it very hard to understand what was going on in the minds of those who died by suicide—probably because we look at life through minds that are healthy and not suffering from depression or other mental issues.
	- people who die by suicide don’t die because of anything we did or didn’t do. They died because they were mentally compromised, and their suffering mind told them that was the only way to escape excruciating pain.
	- Part of our work in these complicated relationships is to see the people as themselves, and to decide, from a place of calm and detachment, how to respond to them.
	- People are who they are, and they don’t change just because we need them to. If they are important enough to us, we will overlook their insensitivity. If they’re not, we may consider letting the friendship go.
	- Loss is a strong current that infuses everything it touches. We hope for more love and compassion. But that same current also runs through resentment, entitlement, and oppositional behavior. We grieve in character, both good and bad!”
	- After the death of a loved one, we are often left with unfinished business—complications that leave us with anger and guilt, regret and recriminations. Our feelings may stem from something as recent as yesterday’s argument, or as old as something going back to childhood. The relationship simply could be strained, or there could be a longtime or permanent estrangement. There is of course no way of bringing a resolution to a relationship after a death. The unfinished business will remain unfinished
	- How did you find it in yourself to help her so much?” “I just played my part,” Lisa said. “I learned in acting and in my life that my job reflects my character. My job is how I respond to situations and other people. How people choose to play their characters is not for me to evaluate. My one and only job is my own character. I showed up for her, just like I wanted to.”
	- How Rochelle behaved was not something she could control or judge. How she herself behaved was completely within her control, and she chose the path that seemed right for her.
	- I always encourage people to do kind things with no expectations. Expectations are resentments under construction.
	- Bitterness is like swallowing a teaspoon of poison every day. It accumulates and harms you. It’s impossible to be healthy and free when you keep yourself bound to the past. I use four ways to forgive. I picture the person as an infant. There were born innocent I think of them growing up and someone wounding them. Wounded people wound people. They wound you because that is how they have been taught You can forgive the person, but not the action. Maybe the stupid thing they said at the funeral does feel unforgivable. But you have had twenty years of friendship I remember I’m not perfect, either
	- One of the biggest spiritual lessons we can learn is to understand that everyone is doing the best they can at any given moment. No one looks in the mirror in the morning and says, “I think I’ll be a real jerk today.” People can only do so much with the understanding, awareness, and knowledge they have. This is not to say that their behavior is acceptable or excusable. The incident you are holding on to is over. Perhaps it’s long over. It will help to remember that forgiveness is seldom for “them.” It is for you.
	- The other option for untangling that guilt is to make a “living amends.” This is where you take the action you wish would have occurred and do it with others for the rest of your life.
	- The funerals that are most memorable and touching are the ones that describe the person in full—the good parts and at least some of the bad. Often a person’s character flaws—stubbornness, willfulness, arrogance, flamboyance, a determination to shock, rebelliousness, rule breaking, etc.—are also part of what made that person special and unique.
	- A wife who loses a husband is called a widow. A husband who loses a wife is called a widower. A child who loses his parents is called an orphan. There is no word for a parent who loses a child. Lose your child and you’re… nothing. —Tennessee Williams
	- Their relationships grow stronger They discover new purposes in life The trauma allows them to find their inner strength Their spirituality is deepened They renew their appreciation for life
	- Memories are like soft cushions you can fall back on when you need support. My son pops up in my mind a lot and I watch the memories of him almost as I would a movie. I replay them, and I cherish them. Despite my tragic loss, I’m still looking for hope, glimpses of meaning, and for the daylight that might come tomorrow.
	- “We sit in our own pain, thinking that somehow we’re broken. I think the worst thing that we do to each other as women is to not share the truth about our bodies and how they work.”
	- The pain caused by the secrecy and silence that surround miscarriage, as well as the loss of a child in early infancy, is incalculable, making what would already have been excruciating to bear even more so.
	- I wanted people to understand that we can live after loss. That’s not to say that you shouldn’t grieve your loss. It’s not about taking anything away from it. It’s about honoring the love that remains and living the best life we can. That’s become the bottom line for everything I do.”
	- “I do hand- and footprints. That’s something they can take with them. They have so little evidence of the life of their baby.” Nicolas understands that after an infant loss or miscarriage, parents will find meaning in memories that have a physical representation.
	- Today, hospitals like Naomi’s are adopting protocols that allow mothers and fathers to spend time with their dead child, for hours or sometimes even days, in order to make memories. This may sound odd. But when parents are left with no evidence that they ever had a child, the grief that follows such a death can be very complicated. “All the labor, delivery, and neonatal intensive care units and the units at her hospital have cameras for the parents to take pictures.
	- We can’t tell a person who is mentally ill or addicted to use his brain to help himself recover, because his brain is the diseased organ. Because such people cannot do what is necessary to help themselves, professional help is necessary but often hard to find, or expensive, or not very good, or some combination of all of the above.
	- Yet the stigma associated with people suffering from these afflictions remains. “Isn’t it their fault? Didn’t they choose it? Couldn’t they have prevented it by taking their pills or going to a twelve-step meeting?”
	- When a loved one suffers from mental illness or addiction, your grief often begins long before death. You grieve for the loss of the future you had imagined living with that person, for the terrible changes that have overtaken the person, and for the nightmare you watch unfolding, which keeps getting worse and worse.
	- I explained that in the Jewish religion, it’s customary to bring stones to the cemetery instead of flowers.
	- As we stood at David’s grave, one of the men asked, “How do you get through an event like this?” “It’s not an event,” I said. “It’s the rest of my life.” And that’s the truth. I’ll be grieving for David Jr. for the rest of my life. But I will also be trying to make some meaning out of my loss—by being of service.
	- The love didn’t die when the person we love died. It didn’t disappear. It remains. The question is: How do we learn to remember that person with more love than pain?
	- The word “bereaved” has its origins in the Old English words deprived of, seized, and robbed. That is how it feels when your loved one has been taken from you—as excruciating as if your arm had been ripped from your body. You’ve been robbed of what is dearest to you. The pain you feel is proportionate to the love you had. The deeper you loved, the deeper the pain. But you will find that love exists on the other side of the pain. It’s actually the other face of pain.
	- There will be times when a grieving person does not want to be told that their loved one has gone to a better place or has gotten their heavenly reward or is with Jesus. For some people such words may be comforting whenever they are spoken. For others, never.
	- “How long has it been?” is one of the first questions I always ask. It’s not because there is some invisible timeline to grief. “How long has it been?” is my way of asking, “How much time have you had to process the pain?”
	- In five weeks after a loved one dies, there is no finding a way around the pain, no “getting over it.” Feeling that pain is a necessary part of remembering the love. The pain is a part of the love. We can’t love someone and lose them without feeling pain. Not only do we have a need to feel the pain, we also need to have it witnessed by others, not pushed away.
	- When is it time to move into the love? When you feel that you have fully felt the pain. Even when you do, it will hurt again. It will just hurt less, and less often. Moving into love begins with realizing the love was always there. It was there in the good times, in the illness, in the death, and in the grief. It was never absent, even in the worst moments, and it is there still. Death is not strong enough to end love.
	- We are made up of love. We are the sum total of love. If I’ve felt one moment of real love in my life, that can be with me in my most terrifying moments. Love is a cushion in our tragedies. Love never dies. In our darkest moments, love remains. When everything else is gone, love continues.
	- But symbolically, her friends were saying, “While you’re in pain, we can remind you of our love.” I see that love was her constant companion in pain.
	- Identify a positive experience or memory.
	- In terms of the person who died, think about a wonderful moment you shared. It doesn’t have to be anything extraordinary, just something that made you both happy. Maybe you watched a sunset together, read a poem to each other, took a two-hour walk through a city you loved.
	- Enrich it. Savor it. Think about it. Repeat it over and over in your mind. Sustain the memory of that good time for twenty to thirty seconds.
	- Absorb the experience. Sink into it and let it sink into you. Soak it in. Feel it in your body, visualize it in your mind, let it become part of you.
	- There is pain in their loss, but there is also good. I want to help them savor the love, not just stay with the pain. I want to help them find meaning in their memories and take that good into their future. If you see only the pain in a situation, it will grow. I’m not suggesting you minimize or negate it, but if that’s all you pay attention to, that’s all you’ll have.
	- Being able to remember his father as a happy man and a loving father helped him move, finally, past the pain that had been tormenting him into love for the father who had so clearly treasured his time with his son.
	- When we move through pain and we release it, we fear there will be nothing, but the truth is, when the pain is gone, we are connected only in love. Though much of my work is about giving people permission to grieve fully after a loss, I also want to give them permission to keep loving. When I talk about remembering my son with love instead of pain, I recognize that love didn’t stop with his death. His body died
	- but the love didn’t. Look for the small seeds of love in the pain. Just like a delicate plant, we have to pay attention to it and nourish it. If we do, the love will flower once again in our hearts.
	- Even though someone may think they’ve put the worst of their grief behind them, they have moments when, seemingly out of the blue, they burst into tears, overwhelmed with feelings of loss. These moments are all the more painful because they are so unexpected, and people are often caught off balance by them. But there are comparable experiences that I call love bursts—those moments when suddenly, for no reason at all, we feel a surge of emotion for someone and tell them how much we love them.
	- Sometimes I encourage people who are trying to comfort a bereaved person to ask about a favorite memory. Or to share one of their own.
	- Don’t be afraid that these memories will bring pain. They are deep sources of comfort to those who are in mourning. How often do we talk about regrets and forget to remember all the good we felt in the relationship? Many of us can remember only the negatives. Be sure to remember the love.
	- remembering and celebrating the dead is an important tradition because it keeps us in touch with the spirits of the deceased
	- Visiting a place that was special to our loved ones helps us remember and connects us to their legacies. It doesn’t have to be anywhere special. It just has to have been important to them.
	- Ensuring that the good qualities of your loved one will live on in your own life is perhaps the most meaningful of all legacies.
	- Everything our loved ones touched—from their clothes to their jewelry, their house and everything in it, their car, their music collection, their books and their art—is the physical evidence of how our loved ones lived their lives, what they enjoyed, how they spent their time, what they valued, and what they found beautiful and meaningful
	- Who I am is very much a product of who he was. In that way I am the most important part of what my father has left on this earth. So while we may have to let go of someone’s belongings, the person himself will forever live in us, and in our memories.
	- Then I suggest you choose the possessions that mean the most to you and dispose of the rest
	- Death does not end a relationship, she insisted. It changes it
	- the five stages of grief were never meant to be an end unto themselves, and completion of them wasn’t supposed to signify the ending of the relationship or grief
	- When someone dies, the relationship doesn’t die with them. You have to learn how to have a new relationship with them. You can still keep learning from them in your everyday life.
	- When we speak about grief, there are two closures that come to mind: The first is the unrealistic wrap-up we expect after a loss. It has become an added burden not just to mourn and grieve the loss, but to find that closure, and find it quickly, so you can move on. The second kind of closure involves doing things that help put the loss in perspective, such as reviewing what happened and why—or looking for missing pieces of the stories and filling in the gaps
	- You’re not closing the door on a relationship with the person who died. You don’t ever bring the grief over a loved one to a close. You’re opening the door to a different relationship
	- Just as loving hands greeted us when we were born, so will loving arms embrace us when we die. In the tapestry of life and death, we may begin to see connections to the past that we missed in life. While death may look like a loss to the living, the last hours of a dying person may be full rather than empty.
	- I long to see them again and I will never be the same until I do. But when I do, I don’t want to have to tell them that my life lost all its meaning when they died. They loved me, and they wouldn’t want that.
	- Perhaps being witnessed helps us physically as well as emotionally. Our heart longs for connection. Anyone who is going through deep grief can tell you that grief affects your mind, your heart, and your body. Having our pain seen and seeing the pain in others is a wonderful medicine for our body and soul.
	- I could have gratitude for whatever kindness people extended to me, while recognizing that they could not be expected to share my feelings. This was my tragedy, not theirs
	- that in times of grief, our friends are like the instruments in an orchestra, which play many different notes to make up a symphony. There are the people who show up immediately when tragedy happens. That may be their note. The ones who show up in the first month help us walk through our darkest valleys. That is their note. The people with whom we can later begin to return to a more normal life play a different note, as do the people who eventually encourage us to talk about the future.
	- Everyone has something to offer, and they offer it in their own time. The result of all the contributions is a symphony of meaning
	- In grief, we are faced with the question of how we will find meaning in the rest of our lives
	- “What would best honor the years they didn’t get?” That could be one way of bringing meaning to our lives without them.
	- We can’t move into the future without leaving the past. We have to say goodbye to the life we had and say yes to the future. My son’s death will always be a part of me, and one of my goals is to figure out who I am in this future without him. That is how I will begin to rebuild.
	- Ask yourself, “Who would I be if I changed and grew with this loss?” More important, who will you be if you don’t
	- We often believe that grief will grow smaller in time. It doesn’t. We must grow bigger. We must be the architects of our lives after loss
- **Insights**
	- Insert key insights