Title:: I May Be Wrong and other Wisdoms from Life as a Forest Monk
Author:: [[Bjorn Natthino Lindeblad]]
Tags:: buddhism

	- **Quotes**
		- What I value most from my seventeen years of full-time spiritual training is that I no longer believe my every thought. That’s my superpower.
		- I have never felt completely comfortable with the term mindfulness. My mind doesn’t feel full when I’m truly in the moment. More like a big, empty, welcoming space, with plenty of room for everyone and everything. Conscious presence. It sounds like hard work, the opposite of being relaxed. For that reason, I like to use a different word: awareness. We become aware, we remain aware, we are aware. It was awareness that blossomed that early morning beside the toaster in Karlskrona. It feels like leaning into something soft. The thoughts, the feelings, the physical sensations – everything is allowed to be exactly as it is. It makes us a little bit bigger. We notice things in and around ourselves we haven’t noticed before. It’s an intimate feeling. Like an invisible friend who’s always on your side.
		- when we’re present, when we’re not hypnotised by every little thought that flashes into our heads, people find us much more pleasant to be around. They give us their trust. They give us their attention. We connect with the world around us in a completely different way.
		- Success and happiness are two different things. To others, it must have seemed I’d played my cards right. I had all the trappings of material and professional success. I’d gone straight from university to three intense work years in half a dozen countries. But I’d done it with sheer willpower and self-discipline. I was still playing a part, still pretending to be interested in economics. You can get away with that for so long. But we all know there comes a day when discipline alone is no longer enough. A job, what we spend our days doing, has to nourish and stimulate some deeper part of our being.
		- Whatever you’re thinking about, it leads to worry, anxiety, despondency, helplessness. I remember thinking something along the lines of: ‘How can I help myself? I’m lying here, stuck in a spiral of dark thoughts. This isn’t good for me.’
		- ‘That which is peaceful inside us humans, that which is still and calm, that isn’t ruffled by thoughts that are always present in the background – that is valuable, that is worth taking note of. That has rewards.’
		- ‘Okay, so, all the thoughts I’m thinking right now are making me feel bad. Just blocking them seems impossible. Swapping them for positive ones feels disingenuous. I mean, am I supposed to lie here and pretend I’m looking forward to that management meeting?! Talk about superficial. What can I do if I want to achieve calm and stop being hypnotised by my own thoughts?’
		- It was enough to allow me to create some critical distance from the torrent of thoughts, rather than just frantically trying to keep my head above water. The pressure in my chest eased a little. The breaks between the anxious thoughts grew slightly longer. The feeling of just existing became a little bit more accessible. And within this relative calm, from a fairly still place within me, a quiet thought surfaced.
		- Thoughts are not a problem in and of themselves, of course. But automatically, uncritically identifying with every passing thought – that’s a huge problem. The untrained mind often does this. We feel that our identity and our thoughts are inextricably linked.
		- So how do you let go of a train of thought that’s dragging you along with it? You turn your attention elsewhere. The only thing fuelling your thoughts is your attention. Imagine a fist unclenching into an open hand – it shows us how we can let go of things and thoughts and let them fly. That simple gesture, of briefly letting go of what we’re thinking about, goes a long way. Deliberately and consciously directing our attention towards something less complicated, such as a physical experience like breathing, can constitute a healing, soothing break from our inner chaos.
		- When it’s time to breathe in, imagine a rising within your body. As if your upper body is a bottle of water. When we exhale, the water level sinks, the bottle empties, and when we inhale, it rises back up, from the bottom. Imagine your breath starting from your hips, or all the way down by the floor. Then the water level rises through your stomach, chest and neck.
		- See if you can just let these two waves anchor you for a while – the falling wave on the exhale and the rising wave on the inhale. If you have to adjust, do it kindly, gently, as though asking your body: how does breathing work best for you? Is it easier for you to take in air if I open up a bit more in the chest? Drop my shoulders slightly? Find the part of you that thinks it’s good enough. That feels good. This breathing, that’s all you have to do for the moment. You’re taking a break from everything else. Your frontal lobe has switched off. In this moment, you have no responsibilities. In this moment, there’s no plan to formulate, no opinion to give, nothing to remember. The only thing you need to do is breathe. Stay with it for as long as you feel like it.
		- We all have the ability to let go of our thoughts, to choose where we direct our attention, how long we allow our attention to linger on things that cause us harm. You do, too.
		- I think what happened after the first two, dreamlike, weeks was that I started worrying that I might like her more than she liked me. It was a short leap from there to a bigger fear: What if she leaves me?
		- We all need guidance from time to time. I can’t imagine a person whose life is never hard. We all go through periods when we feel utterly lonely, helpless, friendless, misunderstood, ill-treated. And when a storm is brewing, we need to find things to hold on to, lash ourselves to.
		- Ever since I was little, I’d had a voice inside me whispering I wasn’t good enough. A voice that grew a lot louder whenever I did something awkward or stupid, like if I misunderstood something or failed. And fell silent whenever I did something good
		- We can learn to take our thoughts less seriously, find a more sober way of relating to them: ‘What do you know, there’s that ridiculous thought again. Oh well. I’m not going to hold on to that one.’
		- Regardless of who we are, where we come from and what our history is, we tend to have a lot in common in terms of our inner workings. By admitting that and shining a light on it, we make it easier to stop pretending we’re on top of everything. It makes it easier to help each other, to share, to genuinely meet
		- So I made a kind of deal with myself then and there: ‘From now on, one of your guiding principles will be to become someone whose company you have a slightly easier time enduring. Someone slightly more comfortable in his own skin. Someone who isn’t ruled by his thoughts. Who might one day even become a good friend to himself.’
		- Sleep on it. You’ve come a long way to do this. Maybe you’ll feel differently tomorrow morning.’ I always did. And I was starting to understand why the Buddha spoke so much about impermanence. Nothing lasts. Not even the difficult times.
		- Directing our attention, choosing what we aim it at, is the best and possibly the only thing we can do when things get really hard.
		- When we believe everything we think, it leaves us vulnerable and defenceless. On every level. And it erodes our wisdom. In our darkest moments, the abyss may well be bottomless. It can literally torment us to death
		- We don’t choose our thoughts. We don’t control the shape they take. Possibly, we can encourage some more than others, allow them more or less room. But we can’t control what pops into our minds. We can only choose whether or not to believe it.
		- In the western world, not least in business, I’d been told that intellect trumps virtually everything. But here, I was given convincing proof of what I’d long suspected – that we humans have so many other resources at our disposal, too. There exists an intelligence that isn’t confined to our heads, and we would do well to turn to it more. That wise voice inside me, the one that had brought me all the way here, it’s worth listening to
		- we have to do is pay attention, because our wisdom isn’t as loud as our ego. Our ego often drowns out everything else with its noisy demands
		- It’s difficult to give up something that looks right and proper on paper, be it a job, a relationship, a lifestyle. But when I let go of my thoughts a little, allow them to flow more freely, I’m able to make room for a truer conviction. It’s usually only then, when I let the wiser voice inside me make itself heard, that I can come to a final decision
		- They annoyed me; I was upset when they didn’t behave like I felt they should. But after a while, I recognised the pain in all that resistance I was creating inside myself. Slowly but surely, something inside me became a little more generous
		- All of us are like pebbles washed up on a beach. When we get there, we’re rough and jagged. Then the waves of life roll in. And if we can find it in us to stay there and let the other pebbles on the beach jostle us and rub against us and wear us down, our sharp edges will slowly but surely fade. We’ll become rounded and smooth, we’ll reflect the light and begin to shine.
		- We can sense when someone seems to be thinking: Hi! You’re welcome just the way you are, it’s so lovely that you’re you. You don’t have to be any other way, I accept all your idiosyncrasies, your quirks and eccentric sides, your odd behaviours; you’re completely welcome in my world just the way you are. There’s room here for you.
		- We can get so far by just letting each other be who we are, by accepting each other. That way, we give each other a chance to move forward with all of our strengths, all of our talents, a chance to become more beautiful versions of ourselves. When we feel assured others accept us for who we are, it’s easier for us to be sensitive to others. It makes us able to interact with our surroundings in a more empathetic way.
		- The monks or nuns who live there have to express to one another that ‘I’m prepared to work with you. You don’t have to be perfect, you don’t have to be intellectually shrewd, I don’t even have to like you. But I’m prepared to work with you.’ It was a fundamental part of monastic life, to do everything together
		- Rituals and ceremonies have no intrinsic meaning. We endow them with meaning
		- If you always cling to what you think you already know, you make yourself inaccessible, and you miss out on so much. If we want access to a higher wisdom, we have to let go of some of our convictions and become more comfortable with not knowing
		- If we always cling to what we think we already know, how will we ever discover anything new? How can we learn? How can we stretch, improvise, play? How can we find a way to make one plus one come out as three?
		- A person who might even be capable of putting themselves in our shoes for a moment and walk by our side for a bit. That kind of listening is genuinely healing. When we meet on that level, we can learn a lot about ourselves: Wow, look at me, sharing and explaining, saying things I didn’t realise I thought or felt or believed. How exciting! Listening without prejudice or judgement can help us understand ourselves
		- This story speaks to me. Because that’s exactly how I feel whenever I find myself stuck in unyielding conviction. I don’t want to let go of this thought, because it’s right. We all get entangled in this ‘logic’ sometimes. Especially when we’re feeling low. We cling to certain fixed beliefs.
		- Practising letting go is one of the most important things I’ve learned. The wisdom of that is profound. We never stop benefiting from getting better at it. The only way to get rid of thoughts that are harming us, that are making us feel small, useless, lonely, afraid, sad, angry – is to let them go. Even if they’re ‘right’
		- I may be wrong. I may be wrong. I may be wrong.’
		- It always propels me forward, in a humbler, more constructive direction. This wisdom is timeless and obviously doesn’t belong to any one religion. I may be wrong. So simple. So true. So easy to forget.
		- We tend to think life should be the way we want it to be, the way we planned. But often, things don’t turn out that way. In fact, they rarely do. And there’s wisdom in not expecting life to turn out the way we think or feel it ought to. There’s wisdom in understanding that we are essentially clueless.
		- There’s a lot to be gained from remembering just how little we really know about the future, from objectively separating what we believe from what we know
		- Over the course of this year, a hard and wordless sorrow was growing steadily stronger inside my chest. I couldn’t understand why or what it was about. I tried to let myself feel it. I tried to accept it, talk to it. I tried to be patient with it. But nothing seemed to help. It was just lodged there in my chest, sucking the joy out of my life.
		- It felt like I was never going to be happy again. So I walked back to my tiny hut, carefully hung up my outer robe, lit some incense and knelt down in front of my bronze Buddha. I put the palms of my hands together in front of my chest and tersely, but with intense feeling, told the Buddha statue: ‘I can’t do this. This is bigger than me. I feel completely helpless. Help me.’ Then I began to bow. Again and again. Slowly, slowly, the sorrow began to shift. I didn’t resist, just let it take me over. My eyes filled with tears. Hesitantly at first, then more forcefully. My body was moaning, shaking, sobbing. But I just kept bowing. After a while, my tears slowed and I realised a part of me was calm and curious, aware of this explosion of anguish. Then my tears dried up completely and I looked around, as if with fresh eyes. Everything had regained some of the shimmer I’d experienced that morning so long ago, in my grandparents’ house in Karlskrona
		- are caused by our own thoughts. Our psychological suffering is for the most part not caused by external events but, rather, by what’s happening inside us – the thoughts bubbling up that we can either believe or not. It’s there, in our minds, that our suffering is created; that’s where it lives and thrives. For as long as we allow it to
		- When life gets hard, when we face psychological pressure, pointing fingers is easier and leaves us less vulnerable. But even if it makes us uncomfortable, it eventually becomes completely necessary to ask ourselves the question: ‘Is there anything I can do, right here, right now, to help me feel less awful in this situation?’
		- And the thought that hurts the most – I should be different. I should be wiser, more hardworking, richer, better, thinner, more mature. You can be stuck in that groove forever. But you can also gently step out of it. And with a smile on your lips say:  ‘Thanks for your input. We’ll get back to you.’
		- Ajahn Jayasaro wrote on the postcard he sent me that year: ‘It seems to me, the more refined forms of happiness are characterised by the absence of things, rather than the presence of things.’
		- He was always able to say the right words to the right person at the right time, and he always served up his lessons with a large helping of love. Accepting wisdom from a person like that is easy, even when what they say touches a nerve.
		- That moment really brought it home to me that I was no longer living a life that revolved around amassing impressive merits or looking good to others. I finally felt free of that. The way I see it, genuine human, spiritual and transcendent growth isn’t so much about learning coping strategies; it’s more about putting down our baggage. About learning how to get stuck in our hang-ups a little bit less often and for shorter periods of time. Forget about not having hang-ups. Only the dead have no hang-ups.
		- That makes life lonely, tough, fraught and anxious. Trust life a bit more! Almost all the best things in my life have been outside my control, I know this. Trying to direct and predict everything just makes life hard. Not fun. I lose a part of my intelligence when I get this tense.
		- When we’re able and brave enough to let go of our vain attempts to control and anticipate the future. Then, something almost magical happens.
		- there are two kinds of thoughts that dominate almost all humans: thoughts revolving around our own history and thoughts revolving around our own future. These thoughts are mesmerising, and they all have the same fingerprints: my life. It’s as though you’re walking through life lugging these two big, heavy, important bags with you – one containing all your thoughts about your history, the other all your thoughts about your future. They’re wonderful, valuable bags. But try putting them down, just for a bit. See if you can greet some part of life more immediately, here and now. And if you’re successful, you can pick the bags back up later. If you want to.
		- You won’t always have what you want, but you’ll always have what you need
		- often its less about planning, control and organisation than you might think, and more about presence. Everyone knows what it feels like to be in the flow. You’re alert and attentive. Aware, if you like. You don’t dwell anxiously on the things that might go wrong, wondering how to respond to all conceivable and inconceivable outcomes. You’re not constantly worried about things turning out the way you want them to. Instead, you’re mindful enough to respond in an open manner. Which is also, as a rule, by default a wiser plan of action. Letting go of our need for control, being aware, is a lot about mustering the courage to face uncertainty.
		- When we don’t know, when things are uncertain, we often feel frightened and become inflexible. So we pretend that things are more predictable than they really are, even though we actually live with enormous uncertainty all the time. We cling to our plans and ideas about how things should be and turn out ever so desperately. And there’s nothing wrong with having plans. It’s wonderful, we all need to plan our lives to some extent. I think it’s a beautiful thing. But there’s a difference between planning and thinking all your plans have to come to fruition.
		- Life will inevitably throw storms my way. Again and again. Sometimes, I’ll be a lone ship adrift in rough seas with no lighthouse or beacon in sight. Sometimes the turbulence will be milder, but still unpleasant – my boss yelling about something I should have done last week, a conflict with someone I care about.
		- Anyone who has ever experienced true anxiety knows that if you believe your thoughts at those moments, things can turn dangerous. There’s no limit to how dark things can get.
		- You may have ten lovely, empathetic friends who keep telling you it will pass, who keep reminding you of all the other things that eventually changed – of course this will, too, one day. You hear them, you comprehend their words. But nothing happens below your chin. Down there, the dark voice is still whispering.
		- We begin to exist in the presence of others. That is extra important when things get hard. If you can, be with people who reflect your light. Try to find strength in relationships that feel safe and easy, where you feel liked for who you are.
		- We pick at each other’s wounds, almost always without meaning to. But those broken, hurt places are exactly the ones that need to be brought out into the light of loving awareness. So everything is exactly as it should be. Even in those moments
		- Your compassion for others will always fall short and remain fragile, so long as you’re unable to extend it to yourself first. In order to grow in our love, we need to be able to direct our tenderness inwards. Unfortunately, I think a lot of us overlook that, fail to make it a priority. We’re often critical and hard on ourselves, failing to see that we, too, deserve compassion. Especially when we’re not feeling well.
		- ‘I shouldn’t feel this bad. I shouldn’t react to this thing. I shouldn’t be so easily riled, so easily hurt, so envious, so resentful.’ But one thing’s for sure – that kind of rebuke won’t help anyone who’s dealing with difficult emotions. Instead, we need to go to that place where it hurts and try to see it with as much compassion and understanding as we can muster. See if we can find a way to counter the dark thoughts and drag them out into the light, without believing their content. If we can begin to see ourselves in a more forgiving, tolerant light, treating the people around us the same way follows naturally. But as long as we continue to view ourselves from a harsh and demanding perspective, we can’t give others absolute love either.
		- But if we’re waiting until we feel worthy of love, until that feeling just magically appears, we risk having to wait forever.
		- My guiding star on my journey back to work was trust. It may be that it became more important than ever for me to mind the lessons about living life with open hands, about not always trying to manipulate circumstances to get my own way, and instead to trust the universe
		- What you send out into the world, that’s what tends to come back to you. The more determined you are to control the circumstances of your life, the more uncomfortable you will feel when you’re reminded that there’s such a thing as trust. Which means you lose out on the benefits of that trust. And there might be situations where trust is the last thing left to lean on.
		- He’s like a beacon of goodness in my life. Even on the stormiest seas, by the sharpest, most dangerous rocks, I can turn to him and find the light. And the light is always signalling the same thing, in the most convincing way: Everything is as it should be. Always. The universe makes no mistakes.
		- We humans are like leaves on trees in that respect. Most leaves hold on until they’re withered and brown, but some fall while they’re still green.
		- The things I’m ashamed about, the things I’m afraid people might find out, that’s when I know I did something wrong – that is heavy baggage. It’s so tedious to drag around. Imagine instead journeying through this life without too many shadows, without too many painful memories of times we didn’t act in a dignified way. That’s why there’s value in not deceiving others for our own gain, in not hurting others because it serves our purposes at the time, in avoiding bending or twisting the truth because it’s more convenient.
		- I have a conscience, I remember what I’ve done and said. Those things constitute my baggage. And I can choose what to pack.
		- He has lived a hard life and one morning he comes out of his tepee and declares: ‘Today is a good day to die.’ That’s how I want death to come. Like a friend. You’re welcome here, Death. You give me perspective and proportion by whispering in my ear: ‘It all ends one day. Make sure you don’t leave any shadows behind.’ Because, suddenly, life ends. And then it will matter how I chose to live it
		- We can choose to bring out what’s beautiful in ourselves. A little bit more today than yesterday. And even more tomorrow. Human life is short. When we truly understand that, when we stop taking each other and what we have for granted, then we move through our own lives differently. We can’t affect all possible outcomes or make everything come together exactly the way we want. But we can choose to act from our brightest intentions.
		- Because what happens when we stop taking life for granted? What happens when we genuinely, with our entire being, understand that we don’t have each other forever? We no longer have time for half-measures. One day, we’re going to have to say goodbye – to every single person who means something to us. That we don’t have each other forever is the only thing we know for sure. Everything else is a maybe. And when we bear that in mind, we realise there’s only one way to approach other people and life itself: gently.
		- We can condemn those acts. But we don’t have to close our hearts to the person who committed them. It is a mark of how far we’ve come when we have genuinely learned to separate people from their actions
		- ‘Anger arises, but nothing does it occupy.’ I like this story because it illustrates what life can be like when our inner space is big enough to contain all our feelings. It’s not that we stop having those feelings we view as negative or difficult. We just stop identifying with them; we don’t let them occupy us. Then, they can no longer harm us, or make us do things we regret.
		- My circle has shrunk. I focus more on the people closest to me. I want to make absolutely sure they know how fond I am of them.
		- It’s time to listen gently to myself. Speak kindly to myself. Afford myself as much patience as I give others on a good day. Approach myself with more humour.
		- Why is the dominant narrative in our culture, as far as facing death is concerned, this heroic tale of fighting, resisting and denying? Why is death so often painted as an enemy to be defeated? As an insult or a failure? I don’t like to think of death as the opposite of life. More like the opposite of birth. And I obviously can’t prove it, but I’ve always had an innate conviction that there’s something on the other side. Sometimes, I even feel like a marvellous adventure is waiting for me. The day my last breath comes – whenever that may be – please, don’t ask me to fight it. Instead, do everything you can to help me to let go. Tell me you’ll be fine and that you’ll stick together. Help me to remember everything we have to be grateful for. Show me your open hands, so I remember what I want it to feel like when it’s time.