title:: Perplexed? Embrace it! Confusion is a symptom of learning | Psyche Ideas
tags:: [[confusion]], [[learning]], [[brain elasticity]], literature/articles

	- **13:34** [[quick capture]]: Think about it: confusion may arise each time you encounter something you cannot immediately make sense of. For most of us, this experience occurs daily – when trying to make sense of a surprising piece of news, or to understand why your boss changed their mind about the launch date of your next project, or to grasp why you had such an explosive argument with your partner the night before. All of these experiences might leave you confused, whether it is confused about how a certain (political, societal, meteorological) event could have occurred, or about the actions, decisions or assertions of others. The world is an inherently confusing place for creatures like us. As much as we can fine-tune our abilities to recognise patterns based on the ever-growing database of our previous experiences, there will always be encounters with odd objects, statements and problems that we can’t quite make immediate sense of. Overcoming these is what we call learning.
	- **13:35** [[quick capture]]: Confusion emerges when we encounter some stimuli that is new and complex, where our ability to make sense of it using our current strategy is low. In a sense, confusion seems to distinctively involve the experience of the limits of our cognitive power.
	- **13:36** [[quick capture]]: Empirical research suggests that, in the right conditions, confusion can act as a driver of success in complex learning tasks. Complex learning tasks require learners to do things like generate inferences, diagnose and solve problems, produce explanations, and demonstrate application and transfer of acquired knowledge.
	- **13:40** [[quick capture]]: Feeling confused can motivate learners to engage a deeper kind of enquiry and more thorough information-processing, which increases their chances of actually overcoming the cognitive obstacle. Interestingly, confusion seems particularly useful when the task requires us to operate a conceptual change – that is, to overcome misconceptions, biased assumptions, or prejudices, in order to develop a more sophisticated and accurate understanding of a set of facts
	- **13:41** [[quick capture]]: Confusion motivates us to work harder, to invest more mental effort in the problem – and to work differently on the problem, to look for different ways or strategies to approach it. [Perplexed? Embrace it! Confusion is a symptom of learning | Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/perplexed-embrace-it-confusion-is-a-symptom-of-learning?utm_source=Aeon+Newsletter&utm_campaign=fc4635c89b-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2023_04_13&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_-0a72083c10-%5BLIST_EMAIL_ID%5D)
	- **15:13** [[quick capture]]: In ‘The Eighty Five Percent Rule for Optimal Learning’ (2019), Robert Wilson and his colleagues found that the optimal degree of difficulty for stimulating the brain to heighten its focus without leading learners to give up, is a task in which learners get it right about 85 per cent of the time, and err about 15 per cent of the time. If the task is so difficult that for 100 trials we make many more than 15 mistakes, then it is likely to be too hard for our brains to integrate and learn.
	- **15:15** [[quick capture]]: In our current world in which answers, information and data are readily available at the tip of our fingers, we have little opportunity to exercise our confusion muscle. Or rather, we deprive ourselves of opportunities to enhance our brain plasticity by trying to think of possible answers of our own. Instead of trying to come up with hypotheses for our questions, we tend to simply put our brains on pause while we type in the question in our search engine and wait for the answer to be delivered to us.